 Bimbo Thomas Nollywood actress, Bimbo Thomas shared the story of how she battled an illness quite similar to Coronavirus during the Christmas and New Year celebrations. Bimbo revealed in a lengthy post on her Instagram page that she was struck by the illness on Christmas day after she returned from the launching of the movie ‘Omoghetto the Saga’ movie by Funke Akindele. Read all she wrote below; This post is for gratitude to God ………?he’s a faithful father. On Xmas day I was up and bubbly to meet with my fans and friend to celebrate the day @the cinemas with wonderful fans and see #omoghettothesaga together, thankfully the turnout was huge we played, we had fun with fans myself and @eniola_badmus. Getting home I was still fine took a thorough warm bath #panicattacks you get before the morning of 26th I’ve lost my voice, my eyes teary, blocked nose, itchy ears, cough and what have my doctor and proceed for checkup “ko ju mari ibi “ on my way to get 1st aid pills, I made a video sensitizing pple to wear their mask and be xtra careful with my lil doctor @hawtiejayden. I was scared, I took him with me, what if it was #covid19 but then again I was rebuking it inside me, finally it was proven by test that I don’t av “COVID-19“. But my brothers and sisters in the Lord I wasn’t fine, I had allergies was placed on antibiotics , vitamins and steaming and all sort , I saw hell with blocked nose in all my lil man stood by me , I couldn’t take him anywhere for d season and guess! What Jayden said and I quote “mum you bought me gifts already I’ll take care of you until you’re beta then we can go out “ that melted me.. Long story short I feel better now , I’m hale and hearty though dealing with the “time of the month “ but it will pass I’m just thankful to God for health , I’ve over planned for the way I’ll rock the season with you all wonderful pple but it’s aiit…..
Thanks for staying glued and listening to my gratitude story …….. thank ds lil God sent for me as well @hawtiejayden mum appreciate and love you beyond words. healthiswealth.. keepsafeeveryone..omoghettothesaga…”