 Ivory Coast Receives COVID-19 Vaccine The COVAX initiative has shipped 504,000 doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine to Abidjan, the economic capital of Côte d’Ivoire. This makes Côte d’Ivoire the second African country and first French-speaking country to receive vaccine doses through the COVAX Facility, the World Health Organisation says. COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and WHO. It aims to accelerate the development and manufacture of COVID-19 vaccines and to guarantee fair and equitable access for every country in the world. Meanwhile, the Director-General of the World Trade Organisation, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said Nigeria’s COVAX vaccine supplies will be on the way soon. Okonjo-Iweala disclosed this on her official Twitter handle @NOIweala. She said “Very happy to see first delivery of #COVAX supported vaccines to Ghana. Excited to see more countries following. Nigeria’s supplies should be on its way soon. No trade restrictions or bureaucracy should get in the way.” In a Twitter post by the World Health Organization Regional Office for Africa – @WHOAFRO on Friday, the agency said 504,000 doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine just arrived in Abidjan. It tweeted “Cote d’Ivoire is the second country in #Africa to receive #COVID19 vaccines from the COVAX facility! “504,000 doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine just arrived in Abidjan. Another step towards #VaccinEquity & a symbol of global cooperation & solidarity. “Cote d’Ivoire will launch its #COVID19 vaccination campaign on Monday 1 March, with frontline health workers and essential staff being among the first to receive them. “This will make it the first African country to roll out #COVAX-funded vaccines.” Cote d’Ivoire?? is the second country in #Africa to receive #COVID19 vaccines from the COVAX facility!?? 504,000 doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine just arrived in Abidjan. Another step towards #VaccinEquity & a symbol of global cooperation & solidarity. pic.twitter.com/uLiX7yM2LE — WHO African Region (@WHOAFRO) February 26, 2021