 A marathon of a tournament in the Europa League is slowly but surely reaching its business end, with the second leg of the last 32 round will decide on Thursday night. However, four British teams of Manchester United, Arsenal, Leicester City and Rangers all in action to join Tottenham who became the first side to book their place in Friday’s draw with a convincing 4-0 home win over Wolfsberger on Wednesday, taking the aggregate score to 8-1. Villarreal vs Salzburg  Salzburg will take a trip to Spain for their return leg against Villarreal at the Ceramica Stadium in Spain on Thursday evening for their Europa round of 32 playoffs. Villarreal won the first leg match 2-0 at the Wals-Siezenheim stadium and the Yellow Submarine are primmed to advance to the round of 16. Villarreal remained unbeaten against Salzburg and have won all their three meetings against the Austrian team. Villarreal will be out to complete their task, Unai Emery’s men have a slight advantage over Salzburg. Prediction: Villareal to win this clash @ 2.20 on BetPay. Arsenal vs Benfica Arsenal will be aiming to put the missed opportunities of the first leg behind them when they travel to Athens for their ‘home’ tie against Benfica in the last 32 of the Europa League. The two sides played out a 1-1 stalemate in the first leg in Rome, with Bukayo Saka cancelling out Pizzi’s penalty in the second half. Meetings between these two sides are few and far between, with only three games played in competitive football Benfica remain undefeated against the Gunners and will be hoping they can return to Portugal on Thursday night with that record still intact. Prediction: Home win or draw plus over 1.5 for Arsenal with odds @1.45 on Betpay Manchester United vs Salzburg  Manchester United will aim to continue from where they left it against Real Sociedad in the Europa League, having defeated La Real 4-0 in the first leg of the clash. Manchester United is almost through to the next round due to their top-level performance against their Spanish opponent. The Red Devils will be out to wrap this game up, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men are on top of their game at the moment and Real Sociedad remains the only side Manchester United have defeated at home in UEFA competition since overcoming Barcelona in 2007/08. Prediction: Manchester United to have record another win @ 2.10 on BetPay Leicester City vs Slavia Prague  Leicester City play host to Slavia Prague on Thursday evening with the two teams locked at 0-0 after the first leg of their Europa League last 32. Each team will be relatively satisfied with the outcome of the game in the Czech Republic, keeping the tie in the balance ahead of the fixture at the King Power Stadium. Leicester City are unbeaten in their last six matches overall in all competitions and indeed, The Foxes have lost just once in the previous 16 matches overall, so Brendan Rodgers’s side will be in a confident mood as they prepare for this return leg. Slavia Prague have won four of their last nine ties in the Europa League which includes wins over Bayer Leverkusen, Nice (home and away) and Hapoel Be’er Sheva. The Czech side won just four of their last 24 away ties in the Europa League and they may well have their work cut out if they’re to get a result against their Premier League hosts here. Predictions: Leicester City tipped to win the encounter at King Power Stadium with odds goes @ 1.55 on Betpay. Napoli vs Granada  Napoli should be out for revenge after the fell 2-0 to Granada in the first leg of their Europa League round of 32. The Serie A team has a herculean task ahead of them as they need to score three goals to cancel out Granada 2-0 win. Granda is aware they have to get an away goal to make the task difficult for Napoli, the La Liga team have the advantage here, following a good first leg display that saw them earn a 2-0 win over Napoli. Napoli is expected to win this clash but Granada will survive the heat and qualify for the next round of the Europa League. Prediction: Napoli 2-1 Granada, win for Napoli @ 1.60 on BetPay. AC Milan vs Red Star Belgrade  AC Milan and Red Star Belgrade face off in the second leg of their UEFA Europa League round of 32 tie at the San Siro. Both two former European champions served up a thrilling encounter in the first leg and Thursday’s clash is poised to follow a similar pattern. AC Milan will be disappointed not to have claimed the win in the first leg as they were twice pegged back by the Serbians, including a 90th-minute equaliser in a 2-2 draw. They are seeking a swift return to winning ways after falling to a 3-0 defeat to bitter rivals Inter in Serie A on Sunday, while Red Star Belgrade are the dominant team in Serbia as they are yet to taste defeat in the league. AC Milan have never lost to Red Star Belgrade with two wins and a draw from three previous matches. Milan claimed a 1-0 victory the last time they faced the Serbians at the San Siro during the 2006/07 Champions League. Predictions: AC Milan have the edge in the encounter with a straight win for Rossoneri odds goes for 1.50 odds Betpay. Post Views: 
				51