 Morecambe manager Derek Adams has sent a strong message to Frank Lampard ahead of third-round Emirate FA Cup clash against Chelsea at Samford Bridge on Sunday. The League Two club is gearing to take on Chelsea after reaching the tournament third-round for the first time in 18 years. However, Lampard hopes to overturned Chelsea four defeats in six Premier League encounters which put club legend job under threat. Morecambe coach Adams has revealed that he was to put Lampard under more pressure as he targets to beat Chelsea at Stamford Bridge on Sunday.  Shrimps boss told the PA news agency: “I think Chelsea’s form makes it more difficult for us, there’s no doubt about that,” “Because there’s obviously pressure on Chelsea to get through to the next round, we know that, and they were FA Cup finalists last season. “So we know that the game for us is going to be difficult. “But I think it will be harder than it probably could have been, because if they were winning games then it might have been a wee bit easier for us. “We’re back in training, we came back into training late on Tuesday night. “And we are preparing for the game on Sunday, along with all the other teams in the FA Cup we get tested again 72 hours before the game, and we’ll see from there.  “To be fair the players have come back in and they’ve trained well. “They’ve had 10 days off, isolating in their own homes, and they are obviously looking forward to getting back training and getting going again. “They are looking forward to the game on Sunday, and they are in good spirits. We’re fine, and we have no injuries going into the game.” “I think the players actually have to be more concentrated without the fans, because of the lack of atmosphere, they have to just switch on very quickly. “And going into this game we know that Chelsea will start at a pace, because they are at home and they want to progress to the next round. “So we have to analyse that very quickly in the game, that they are going to come out of the blocks as quickly as possible. “I think going into the game against Chelsea’s obviously going to be difficult because of the outfit they are. But what we can do is go and give it a good shot. “To get into the FA Cup third round for the first time in 18 years is very good for the football club. “We’re all disappointed that supporters can’t be there, because I’m sure there would have been thousands travelling down for the game. “But it’s live on the television, which is obviously very useful as well. “We’ll not benefit as much as we would have done if supporters were there. “We’ve done quite well out of television revenue in the previous rounds, and we’ll do well out of this one as well. “Any money that you haven’t budgeted for is welcome, and at this football club anything that comes in, they’re delighted.” Post Views: 
				39