Nigeria’s number one malt brand, Maltina, has handed over prizes to the winners of the 2020 Maltina School Games during a private ceremony in Lagos.  Dr. Mrs. Oluyomi Oluwasanmi representing executive chairman Lagos State Sports Commission Mr. Sola Aiyepetu_ Mrs Olabisi Joseph, President Nigerian School Sport Federation, Mrs. Titilayo Solarin representing the Honourable Co The prize-giving event which was rescheduled as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, was organized to honour secondary school athletes who have excelled in 100m and 200m race, 4x100m, as well as javelin and shot put.  L-R Mrs Okelola Oludara Tutor GeneralPermanent Secretary Education District VI_ Mrs Titilayo Solarin Tutor GeneralPermanent Secretary Education District 1_ Mr. Oyetunde Oladipupo, Principal Ijaye Housing Estate Senior Grammar The winning athletes were chosen across four sub-categories including; Junior and Senior Girls’ category and Junior and Senior Boys’ category. Speaking during the prize-giving event, Portfolio Manager – Non Alcoholic Drinks, NB Plc., Kehinde Kadiri said, “The Maltina School Games has been an avenue for us to support the all-round development of young people through physical activity and sport across the country and we are grateful for the success of the 2020 games. It is so delightful to decorate our winners and we remain committed to continue sharing happiness today and beyond as a brand.”  Kehinde Kadiri, Portfolio Manager for Non Alcoholic Drinks, Nigerian Breweries Plc with Overall Winner Ojo Joy Some of the winners that were awarded include; Anifowose Sikirat, a student of Ijaiye Housing Estate Junior school, who won gold medals in both 100m and 4 x 100m races; Ojo Joy, another student from Ijaiye Housing Estate Senior School who won three gold medals in 100m, 200m, and 4×100m race in the Senior Girls’ category.  Okon Moses Winner Best Athlete Junior Male Category Other winners include Okon Moses from Euba Junior Secondary school, who won a gold medal in the 400m and 4×100m races, as well as a silver medal in the 100m race; Nnedum Onyebuchi, a student from CRC Amesi-Anambra who won himself a well-deserved gold medal in Javelin and Shot Put – making  him the overall winner in the Senior Boys’ category.  Anifowose Sidika Winner Best Athlete Girls Category  L-R Dr Obafunsho Usman, Treasurer Nigeria School Sport Federation_ Anifowose Sikirat, Winner Best Athlete Junior Girls Category and Mr Hilson Mbara, Trade Marketing Execution Manager- Strategic Programs, Nigerian Breweries These four winners from the four different sub-categories went home with a cash prize of 500,000 naira while the top three participants across all the games received a gold, silver and bronze medal respectively; and all gold medalists in all four locations received an HP laptop each, in addition to their medals. The grand prizes of five million naira and one million naira were presented to the overall best school and overall best athlete; Ijaiye Housing Estate, Secondary School, Lagos and Ojo Joy, from Ijaiye Housing Estate Secondary School respectively. Other attendees at the prize-giving ceremony include; Mrs. Titilayo Solarin representing the Honourable Commissioner for Education Lagos State Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo; Mrs. Olabisi Joseph, President of Nigeria School Sports Federation; Mrs Oluyomi Olaide Oluwasanmi, Director School Sports Directorate, Lagos State. The Maltina School Games is a competition organized by Maltina to engage young people in different track and field activities.