Fans of K-drama series, gather round! Sometimes it could be hard to tell which K-drama series to watch or which is more interesting. Well, quick fix! Here are 10 Korean series to watch:  The Heirs also known as The Inheritors, is a South Korean television series starring Lee Min-ho, Park Shin-hye and Kim Woo-bin. Cha Eun Sang and her disabled mother take up humiliating jobs such as washing dishes to support her older sister’s studies in America. She is fed up of her dull life in Korea.  Descendants of the Sun is a 2016 South Korean television series starring Song Joong-ki, Song Hye-kyo, Jin Goo, and Kim Ji-won. A love story between Captain Yoo Shi Jin, Korean Special Forces, and Doctor Kang Mo Yeon, surgeon at Haesung Hospital.  My Love from the Star is a South Korean romantic fantasy television series written by Park Ji-eun and directed by Jang Tae-yoo. Do Min-joon is an alien who was stranded on Earth four hundred years ago. Though he is cynical about humans, he gradually changes his views on them when he gets involved with a childish actress.  Legend of the Blue Sea is a 2016–2017 South Korean television series starring Jun Ji-hyun and Lee Min-ho. A magistrate’s plan to release mermaids into the ocean backfires when they’re caught by fishermen.  Sky Castle is a 2018-2019 South Korean television series starring Yum Jung-ah, Lee Tae-ran, Yoon Se-ah, Oh Na-ra and Kim Seo-hyung. Housewives living at the exclusive Sky Castle community use every way they can think of to get their children into Seoul National University.  You’re Beautiful is a 2009 South Korean television series, starring Jang Keun-suk, Park Shin-hye, Jung Yong-hwa of CN Blue and Lee Hong-gi of F.T. Island. The management company of the idol group A.N.JELL insisted on adding a new singer to the group as the lead vocalist; Tae Kyung’s voice was damaged.  The 2014 South Korean television series starring Lee Jong-suk, Jin Se-yeon, Park Hae-jin and Kang So-Ra, is about a young doctor who flees North Korea for life in the south, where he finds a woman who looks exactly like the woman he lost track of during his escape.  Crash Landing on You is a South Korean television series directed by Lee Jeong-hyo and featuring Hyun Bin, Son Ye-jin, Kim Jung-hyun, and Seo Ji-hye. A paragliding mishap drops a South Korean heiress in North Korea – and into the life of an army officer, who decides he will help her hide.  The movie is is a 2020 romantic-fantasy South Korean Netflix original series starring Lee Min-ho, Kim Go-eun, Woo Do-hwan, Kim Kyung-nam, Jung Eun-chae and Lee Jung-jin. Korean emperor Lee Gon tries to close the doors to a parallel world which was opened by demons; a detective tries to protect the people and the one she loves.  Love Alarm is a South Korean television series starring Kim So-hyun, Jung Ga-ram and Song Kang, based on the Daum webtoon of the same name. In a world where an app alerts people if someone in the vicinity likes them, Kim Jojo experiences young love while coping with personal adversities.