 Two heavyweights in the Nigeria Professional Football League Enyimba and Kano Pillars will be battling it out this Sunday in Aba as fixtures for matchday five takes place across the country. Pillars unbeaten in their first four games of the season (two wins and two draws) will be heading to Aba high on confidence that they can get something from the Super Sunday clash. However, for Enyimba, they would need to shake off the agonies of their 2-0 loss to Heartland and show once more they have what it takes to continue their domination on the home front. Enyimba head coach Fatai Osho who some are already questioning his pedigree to handle a big club like the Aba Elephants will rely on the of duo of Victor Mbaoma and Samad Kadiri to deliver the goods against their highly-formidable Pillars team. At the ‘Soccer Temple’ Agege Stadium, Lagos, MFM will play host to Rangers in another anticipated explosive clash. The two teams head into Sunday’s tie in boisterous mood having secured positive results in their respective midweek outing. MFM secured a draw away to Dakkada in Uyo, while Rangers beat FC IfeanyiUbah 2-1 in an oriental derby clash at the Nnamdi Azikwe Stadium. Dakkada FC, another side yet to taste defeat this season will look to extend their unbeaten streak when they face Lobi Stars at the Aper Aku Stadium, Makurdi. In Port Harcourt, Rivers United will hope to return to winning ways as welcome the resurgent Heartland team to Port Harcourt. After narrowly escaping defeat in their last home game, Sunshine Stars will be up against Warri Wolves at the Akure Township Stadium, while Nasarawa United will host Katsina United in Lafia. Former Super Eagles assistant coach Imama Amapakabo will be the centre of attraction when Abia Warriors face FC IfeanyiUbah in an oriental derby game in the newly adopted Okigwe hiome turf, Abia Warriors are the only team in the NPFL yet to pick any points after playing four games… MATCHDAY FIVE FIXTURES
Sunday, January 17, 2021
Plateau United Vs Adamawa United
Nasarawa United Vs Katsina United
Enyimba Vs Kano Pillars
Rivers United Vs Heartland
Akwa United Vs Wikki Tourists
Jigawa Golden Vs Kwara United
IfeanyiUbah Vs Abia Warriors
MFM Vs Rangers
Lobi Stars Vs Dakkada
Sunshine Stars Vs Warri Wolves Post Views: 
				1