 Adamu Garba Adamu Garba has weighed in on the current issue of Fulanis and the South West Governors. According to the former presidential aspirant, he opined that it makes no sense for cows to roam the streets in this new generation though he is a Fulani man. He called on the government to come out and clear matters arising. He tweeted: “I’m a Fulani man, but I can tell you that it doesn’t make sense for cows to be roaming the streets in 2021. Cows should be ranched on a land acquired or rented by the ranchers. By law, land can only be used through rent or purchase. Govt should step forward & clear this out. “I believe, to reconcile the raging herders crisis is to open proper communication where each knows the laws of the land. All lands in Nigeria, including forests belongs to some entity, FG, SGs, LGs, Company’s or individuals. Thus no land can be used without proper authorization. “The problem of the Fulani herders is a betrayal from the city Fulanis, who decided, after moving to cities, acquiring wealth & power, but forget to carry the village brothers along, leaving them in a desperate situation. The rich Fulanis must come together & get ranching lands. “Land issue is as old as humanity, no any state power can give land to anyone where the land is been identified with owners for generations, without purchasing or renting. The rich Fulani’s must come together & assist our fellow brothers to get reaching land or forest for grazing. “Lack of proper communication to the herders in understanding the law of land use, by bringing the surrounding communities onboard isn’t good enough. It may well be a breeding ground for a circlical conflicts, a very ripe situation for civil war. This must be avoided AT ALL COST.” I’m a Fulani man, but I can tell you that it doesn’t make sense for cows to be roaming the streets in 2021. Cows should be ranched on a land acquired or rented by the ranchers. By law, land can only be used through rent or purchase. Govt should step forward & clear this out. — Adamu Garba II (@adamugarba) January 24, 2021