 Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, will, along with Niger and Oyo State governors, Abubakar Sani Bello and Seyi Makinde respectively, address a leadership symposium on Thursday. The summit organised by the Lead Generation Initiative (LGI), is holding on January 21st 2021 at Transcorp Hilton, Abuja. The symposium tagged, “The Future of Leadership: The Role of the Youth,” is part of the activities to mark one year anniversary of the LGI, a non-governmental, non-political and non-profit organization committed to galvanizing, training and empowering young Nigerians across the country to get involved and take responsibility in community development and nation-building right from their immediate localities. Also expected to speak at the event “which will be eighty per cent virtual and in compliance with COVID-19 protocols”, is the Minister for Youth and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare, Dr Taiwo Afolabi, famous Nollywood actress, Kate Henshaw and others. The would-be panelists to speak on the topic, *Why the Leaders of Tomorrow Must Start Leading Today,* are Samson Itodo, Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun (Wizkid), Japhet Omojuwa, Hon. Akin Alabi, Olanrewaju Fasasi (Sound Sultan) and others. Through its numerous laudable programmes such as: Get Involved Leadership Training (GILT), Get Involved Regional Leadership Summits, Emerging Leaders Conference, Women Leadership Development Programme, Creative Open Crafts, National Entrepreneurial Competition, among others, LGI develops the interest of the youth in governance, social inclusion, and participation in the democratic and political processes in Nigeria. Recall that through GILT, Lead Generation Initiative, in partnership with YIAGA Africa, had successfully trained 1300 young Nigerians in four states namely Oyo, Osun, Bauchi and Gombe on effective leadership skills, strategic communication, community development, active citizenship and nation-building. Each of the 1300 beneficiaries has, in turn, trained 20 people each at the local government level. GILT, which is designed to hold in all the 36 states of the federation including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), is a train-the-trainer leadership workshop, where participants, having been trained at the state level, return to their various local governments to replicate the training for the larger participants at the local government and ward level. The LGI’s leadership symposium is designed to accommodate 25 participants at the venue, while numerous participants across the 36 states including the FCT will take part virtually. Vanguard News Nigeria