 A place on the summit of the Premier League will be on the line when Liverpool welcome rivals Manchester United to Old Trafford on Sunday. The 2020/21 Premier League reaches its halfway mark with the latest round of fixtures, with Gameweek 19 currently underway. The pick of the games in the latest matchday will be played at Anfield on Sunday, when Liverpool play hosts to Manchester United, with top spot in the standings up for grabs. Liverpool have been the pace setters in the Premier League for well over a year, having been by far the best side in the competition since the 2018/19 season. However, the Reds have been thrown off their perch this week by their familiar rivals, having been in a precarious position since losing 1-0 to Southampton in their most recent Premier League game. The aforementioned familiar rivals are none other than Manchester United, who have been in quite a resurgent mood this term under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. Since suffering the 6-1 hammering at the hands of Tottenham Hotspur early in the campaign, the Red Devils have the best record in the top-flight and their 1-0 win over Burnley this week saw them reach the summit of the Premier League. Liverpool have won their last two Premier League games at home against Manchester United, last managing to win three on the trot back in March 2011. In fact, the Red Devils are winless in their last four league games versus Liverpool (D2 L2), their worst run without a win against their arch-rivals since a streak of five between March 2000 and January 2002. Liverpool are winless in three Premier League games (D2 L1), failing to score in their last two. They last went four matches without a win in February 2017 (a run of five), while they have not failed to score in three consecutive league games since March 2005. Liverpool lost their first league game of 2021 but have not started a calendar year with successive defeats in the top-flight since 1993. However, the Reds are unbeaten in 67 home games in the Premier League (W55 D12), finding the net in each of their last 42 at Anfield. Manchester United have won none of their three Premier League games versus Liverpool with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer as their manager (D2 L1) – the only two Red Devils managers to fail to win their first four league games against Liverpool are John Chapman (1921-26) and Tommy Docherty (1973-76). Marcus Rashford has scored three goals in his last four Premier League games against Liverpool, with these goals being worth four points to Manchester United. Only Wayne Rooney (6), Andy Cole (4) and Ryan Giggs (4) have scored more Premier League goals against Liverpool for the Red Devils. Odds Liverpool are banked on 2.10 odds for a win while Manchester United are priced at 3.50 odds for a win and a draw is placed on 3.50 odds. Betting Tips The Red Devils are in great form but Liverpool are champions and remain dangerous despite losing key players and are favourites for the win. Bookies have them winning or getting a draw in this one and Betpay offers odds of 1.27 for that possibility. Prediction Liverpool to win or draw Post Views: 
				165