 Kwara United are now top on the NPFL table after they continued with their impressive performance this season; beating visiting Dakkada 3-0 in their matchday 10 encounter. Wasiu Alalade netted the opening goal for Kwara United in the 13th minute of the encounter after goalkeeper Oremade failed to properly save Taiwo Salaudeen’s powerful shot. Kwara United were not relent in their efforts at increasing the tally, and they eventually got rewarded with a Superb goal from energetic Micheal Ohanu in the 74th minute to make up for the glorious chances he missed in the first half. Substitute Alao Danbanni made it three for Kwara United in the 81st minute as he benefited from a wonderful assist from Olawale Farayola. Coach Abdullahi Biffo in his Post match conference commended his players for Playing to instructions noting that work will continue in the areas that deservethe attention of the technical crew. Biffo who was elated with the result confirmed that Dakkada’s match was his best outing in terms of goal scoring, saying he had earlier have good outings in the previous matches. “My players were very impressive against Dakkada and I must praise them and also thank all Kwarans for the support we are getting,” Biffo explained. Kwara United are now topping the league table with 21 Points and will travel to Enugu to Play Rangers International next week in the matchday 11. In the other games, Umar Hassan scored a late winner as Kano Pillars beat MFM 1-0 in Kaduna. The Olukoya Boys almost pulled a draw before Hassan hit the winning goal in the 90th minute. In Lafia, Akwa United also conceded a late goal as they went down to a 2-1 defeat against Nasarawa United. At the Pantami Stadium, troubled Adamawa United were denied their first win of the season as they settled for a 1-1 draw against  FC IfeanyiUbah. Idris Abubakar scored the curtain-raiser for Adamawa United, while Christian Molokwu equalised for the away side from the spot 11 minutes from time. Katsina United defeated Jigawa Golden Stars 1-0 courtesy of 40th-minute strike. FULL RESULTS
Nasarawa Utd 2-1 Akwa Utd
Katsina Utd 1-0 Jigawa GS
Adamawa Utd 1-1 FC Ifeanyiubah
Kano Pillars 1-0 MFM
Wikki 0-0 Sunshine Stars
Kwara Utd 3-0 Dakkada Post Views: 
				72