Valentine’s might be over for the lot of us but the memories from that special day will definitely linger for as long as our minds can retain them. However, for these lucky couples, not just the memories but also the fun and excitement of Valentine’s have spilled into days after. Infinix has selected and rewarded the winners of itsValentine’s campaign, and from all the pictures, they seem to have had a wonderful time.  Few weeks before Valentine’s Infinix kicked off a love-themed campaign tagged #AnInfinixLoveStory. To start this, the brand put out an announcement prompting lovers to share their love stories online using their social media platforms. Following the announcement, many Nigerians took to their pages to publicly declare their love for their partners and took us through their amazing love journey, detailing all of its nuances with so much passion. There were so many entries received, and the winner,who was selected based on online reactions was entitled to a ?350,000 special Valentine’s package.  While this was ongoing on the one hand, Infinix was running a promotional activity on the other hand. Folks who bought the Infinix Hot 10 Play from Infinix authorized stores during the period stood a chance of winning ?50,000 shopping vouchers and a grand prize of ?350,000 special Valentine’s package. Few days after Valentine’s, Infinix selected the winners from both phases of its Valentines campaign and decided to take them out on a date. Part of the winners from the campaign were Mercy Idemudia and HalimatAkande. Infinix treated the couples to an amazing dinner hangout at Raddison Blue, Ikeja Lagos, were their gift prize of a ?350,000 special Valentine’s package was handed to them. Speaking at the dinner, one of the winners said “This campaign has made me smile in more ways than one. It was soothing to see the sweet and kind words that my partner used to describe me and the effect that I have had on him through our time together.” “I’ve had a good time here at this dinner and it was delightful to meet other couples and listen to their stories as well. The experience altogether has been awesome and I thank Infinix for making this happen” she added. See pictures from the dinner below;  For more pictures from this campaign, and more information on other ongoing activities, visit Infinix on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram at @Infinixnigeria. You can also join their community of young and vibrant fans on XClub via the app on your Infinix device or click on this link to download the app if you’re a non Infinix user.