 Olympique de Marseille welcome PSG in Sunday night’s Classique at Orange Vélodrome as Monaco and Lille to display title credentials again ahead of the weekend Ligue 1 fixtures across France. Here some betting tips and predictions for some of the top games in France this weekend Marseille vs PSG  There is no love lost between the two teams at the moment and have to be wary of an upset in this fixture. This will be the 100th competitive meeting between two Ligue rival as Mauricio Pochettino side holding the edge past Marseille with  44 wins to 33 (and 22 draws) in the 99 played so far. Marseille have experienced one of the worst weeks in their history and will want to make a statement despite endured a difficult season so far and will need to take it up a notch in this match. Paris Saint-Germain are engaged in an intense battle with Lyon, Lille and Monaco for the Ligue 1 title at the moment and cannot afford to drop points this weekend. The French champions have had their problems against Marseille but PSG are favourites to triumph in the encounter with odds goes for 1.40 on Betpay this Sunday night, while Marseille to win odds went for 7.20 and a straight draw is available for 5.45 odds However, another possibility is both sides to score each other as Betpay offers 1.65 odds for GG and over 2.5 for 1.45 on the platform in Le Classique on Sunday night. PREDICTION: Marseille 1-2 PSG Betpay award an odds of 9.45 for correct score on their platform. Nantes vs Lille Lille will be looking to extend their winning run to six games when they take on Nantes at Stade de la Beaujoire on Matchday 24. The home side played out a 1-1 draw with Saint-Etienne last week and will want to pull off a similar result in this match, while Lille is at the top of the league table at the moment and have made the most of their extraordinary purple patch this season. Les Dogues thrashed Bordeaux by a 3-0 margin in their previous game and will be confident ahead of this fixture. Lille have an exceptional head to head record against Nantes and have won 20 matches out of a total of 35 games played between the two teams. Nantes have managed only five victories against Lille and cannot afford to slip up in this game. The previous meeting between the two teams last year ended in a comfortable 2-0 victory for Lille. Lille have won 15 of 23 Ligue 1 games, including seven of 11 away games. Their away record vs sides currently in the bottom-half is five wins from eight. Nantes are without a win in six matches under new manager Raymond Domenech and their home record is W2-D6-L3. Betting Tips Lille have been tip to win with Betpay offering 1.85 odds for the encounter, while Nantes could pull the possible upset with the 4.75 offer for the home win. Victor Osimhen former club could win either half in the encounter with 1.40 odds for the outcome. However, under 2.5 could happen with Betpay offer 1.60 with possible away to score odds PREDICTION: Nantes 0-2 Lille Betpay for high stakes, this is a pretty cool option which an odd of 8.10 odds attached to it. Nimes vs Monaco  Monaco travel to Stade des Costieres on Sunday to take on Nimes in the Ligue 1 encounter. Nimes are rooted to the bottom of the table standings after suffering a 3-0 defeat against reigning champions Paris Saint-Germain last week and will have to be at its best in this fixture. Monaco have managed to recover from a slow start to their season after winning six straight games since the start of the year. Niko Kovac side have a good record against Nimes and have won four games out of a total of 11 games played between the two teams. Nimes have managed two victories against Monaco and can trouble their opponents in this match with the previous meeting between the two French sides took place in November last year and ended in a comfortable 3-0 victory for Monaco. Kevin Volland and Ben Yedder have scored 11 goals each this season, netting at a rate of a goal every 145 minutes. Betting Tips Monaco have been tip to make it seven consecutive wins a role this weekend with Betpay offering 1.40 odds for the encounter. However, over 2.5 is another possible outcome in the clash at Stade des Costieres with 1.50 odds offer on Betpay platform. First half win for Monaco for 1.80 odds or away thing with both halves with Betpay offer 3.15 odds on the platform but both sides could score each other goes for 1.70 odds. PREDICTION: Nimes 1-3 Monaco Betpay award an odds 12.15 odds for this outcome on their platform. Post Views: 
				81