President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja, Sunday, May 16, 2021, for Paris, France on a four-day official visit to make appearance at the African Finance Summit. The aim of his departure will concentrate on assessing the African economy in the aftermath of the Coronavirus pandemic, as well as seeking relief from increased debt burdens on nations. His Presidential spokesperson, Garba Shehu issued a statement saying the Summit which will be chaired by President Macron. The Summit will bring together major players in the global finance institutions and some heads of Government to address external financing and debt treatment for Africa as well as private sector reforms. According to Shehu, Buhari will meet the President of France to talk about the spiking security issues in Sahel and Lake Chad regions, political relations, economic ties, climate change and partnership in bolstering the health sector, especially in combating the spread of COVID-19 through further research and vaccines. ”Before returning to Nigeria, President Buhari will receive some key players in the oil and gas sector, engineering and telecommunications, European Council and European Union Representative for Foreign and Security Policy and Commission, and members of the Nigerian community.” the statement in part read The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, Minister of Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, and Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire will escort the President on his journey. The National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Mohammed Monguno (rtd) and Director General of National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Amb. Ahmed Rufai Abubakar will also travel with him. President Muhammadu Buhari will on Sunday, May 16, 2021, depart Abuja for Paris, France, on a four-day official visit to attend African Finance Summit which will be focused on reviewing African economy,… — Garba Shehu (@GarShehu) May 15, 2021