 Buchi and wife Rukky Popular Nigerian comedian Onyebuch Ojieh better known as Buchi has broken silence over the alleged arrest of his wife, Rukky by the Police. Rukky was reportedly arrested for refusing to pay N700,000 charge for damages caused after she vandalized items and harassed the estate security personnel. Reacting to alleged charges of assault and vandalism, Buchi told The Punch in an interview that the charge is an attempt to gang up against his wife and insisted that his wife was released from police custody after she was arrested. “I would not want to go into it but I will just want to say that all the allegations are lies. We had an altercation with the estate because one of the security men beat up my niece. My younger brother fought the guy and they fined us. I disagreed because we needed to go into the reason for the altercation; the security people harassed a tenant. They should not fine me because my younger brother defended my niece as I was not around when it happened. They fined us and I said that is not right. “I initiated legal action and I informed the estate that I will take the matter to court. They said that since I was taking the estate to court, they will not provide power. I am not around and I had already told my wife not to make any trouble with them. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic courts are not sitting so we cannot institute any action. I have a ten-year-old daughter and the heat was getting unbearable for her so my wife went to demand that they should give restore the power, that was part of the video online, this led her to go to the estate association president’s house. “I think what really caused the problem was that she went to the estate association president’s house and she said that she and her children were not going to leave until they restored the power. That was what caused everything. In the process of trying to eject her, they got into an altercation. My younger brother had to step in. The president cried foul to the members of the association and it turned to a mob and they started manhandling my wife. They went ahead to destroy her car. I have video evidence. I am asking, what did her car do to them? Currently, I am not around but I have been making calls. They took her to the police station but I was able to get her out last night. My wife never embarrassed me in public. She did not sleep at the police station. It was a gang up against my wife.”