In an unexpected move right before the Spurs’ match against Manchester City in the finals of the EFL Cup, currently known as the “Carabao Cup” for sponsorship reasons, Tottenham Hotspur has fired manager Jose Mourinho. The move comes just a day after the announcement of The Super Cup, a proposed new football tournament that has both football fans and online sports betting enthusiasts at the edge of their seats. But, reportedly, the move that stirred up the fan base and bent the odds at Betway and beyond had nothing to do with the Spurs’ intention to playing in the new super-tournament - but his performance as the manager of the team over the last season and a half, during which the club slipped from the top of the league to the 7th place. For now, Mourinho’s place will be taken by former midfielder Ryan Mason, and academy head coach Chris Powell - they will be in charge of the team for the rest of the season. But the team will eventually need a full-time manager, so let the speculation begin. One of the strong contenders for the role is career coach Julian Nagelsmann who really made his presence felt at Bundesliga’s RB Leipzig. Last season, the German team led by Nagelsmann knocked the Spurs out of the European competition, which is definitely a good sign. As for the teams’ play style, he seems to prefer an attacking style of play, highly appreciated by the fans. The Spurs are, in turn, not the only team after Nagelsmann - they face competition from Bundesliga’s Bayern Munich. Ledley King, a former Spurs central defender, was recently appointed assistant first-team coach by Mourinho himself. He is considered a worthy yet risky contender for the job, considering that he has no experience as a head coach. Insiders consider him a worthy contender but only after he amasses some experience in another role - maybe not this summer. Scott Parker is another former Spurs player - but he already has experience as a head coach, having lead Fulham into the Premier League, albeit struggling to keep them there. He would be another risky candidate for the job, considering he has only led the team through around 100 first-team matches. Some consider Brendan Rodgers another likely choice - the current Leicester City manager has been linked with moving to the Spurs right after the club announced Mourinho’s sacking. He, in turn, has reacted to this rumour long before they emerged, saying that he is very content with his current role. “There is nothing to talk about on it,” said Rodgers. “The game is full of gossip and speculation. The only thing I will say is I was very happy here at Leicester, I’ve literally just joined the club in February”, he said, making it clear that he has a long-term project at hand and he intends to develop it over the next few years, and that’s the only thing he’s focused on right now. So, who’s going to replace Mourinho at the helm of the Spurs?