 Here are the betting tips for the FC Porto vs Juventus courtesy of Betpay. Cristiano Ronaldo will be going ‘home’ for Wednesday’s Champions League tie away to FC Porto and the question on the lips of many is just how well will Juventus perform in this crucial clash.  Both Porto and Juventus in years past have enjoyed unrivalled dominance in their respective domestic leagues, but the scenario is different both in Portugal and Italy where there seems to have been a shift in power. Though Porto are in second place with 41 points from 19 games, and three points ahead of rivals Braga and Benfica, they are surprisingly trailing in-form table-toppers Sporting Lisbon by seven points.  Even though the Champions League would always be fancied ahead of domestic success, Porto are under even more pressure to do well in Europe now that it seems they are been beaten to the domestic league shield. Juventus are in the same shoe with Porto as they are presently fourth on the Serie A table thus meaning European success will be the ultimate in a season when the regular league crown is snatched away. This scenario perfectly paints the picture of what to expect as Porto host Juventus on Wednesday. As usual, Betpay provides a variety of options that one can stake on to win big. For the option of a straight win for Porto, the odds are 4.00 while Juventus picking an away win possibly with the help of the son of the soil, Ronaldo is at 2.05 odds. For a draw, it is equally high at 3.50 odds It’s fair to say that Porto were very impressive during the group stage; the Portuguese outfit, after their opening day defeat at The Etihad, earned 13 points from a possible 15, scoring nine and conceding 0, which is a very impressive return.  Juve also had a good group stage campaign, finishing above Barcelona (including a 3-0 at Camp Nou), scoring 14 and conceding four. This suggests that these two sides have the wherewithal to get the desired result on their day. Porto’s fantastic defensive record, and the fact they’ve lost just one of their last 25 in all competitions, means Juve’s work looks cut out, which makes a very narrow scoreline looking quite plausible. For Under 2.5 goals on Betpay, the odds are put at 1.60 which is relatively ok with big-money stakes. 1.55 odds are available to stake against Juventus having a clean sheet Many other options are available via this Betpay Link Post Views: 
				71