Scoop Learn a Thing or Two from Abimbola Craig's Latest Instagram Q&A Session BN TV
Music
Scoop
Sweet Spot Watch Timi Dakolo give His Fan the Surprise of a Lifetime Scoop "This disease is unforgiving" - Bimpe Onakoya opens up about her recent diagnosis with #COVID19 Scoop
Sweet Spot Chairman HKN Adewale Adeleke is a Dad! Scoop US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris covers Vogue Magazine’s Latest Issue! Relationships
Scoop
Sweet Spot Michael B. Jordan makes it Instagram Official with Lori Harvey & their Fans Couldn't Be Happier for them Scoop
Sweet Spot Linda Ejiofor & Ibrahim Suleiman’s son Keon is the Cutest at 6 Months Nollywood
Scoop Mo Abudu Responds to Copyright Infringement Allegations over "Oloture" Music
Scoop Nigerians share their thoughts on the brief friendship between Cuppy and Zlatan BN TV
Movies & TV
Scoop Michelle Obama chronicles "Life After the White House" in New Documentary | Here's the Trailer  Published 3 hours ago on January 11, 2021 By BellaNaija.com  Actress and producer, Abimbola Craig answers various questions from her fans in a fun Instagram Q&A session. The “Skinny Girl in Transit” star, answered questions from her favourite food, to networking, and to how she felt about her directorial debut “Game On“. Check it out:  Related Topics:Abimbola CraigGame OnSkinny Girl in Transit Don't Miss Watch Timi Dakolo give His Fan the Surprise of a Lifetime  BellaNaija.com Living & Celebrating the African Dream!
Catch all the Scoop on www.bellanaija.com
Follow us
Twitter: @bellanaija
Facebook: @bellanaija
Instagram: @bellanaijaonline  Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.  Mayowa takes things to the Next Level on Episode 4 (A Massage Too Far) of Ndani TV’s “Game On”  BellaNaija Style’s Best Beauty Instagrams of the Week: Jackie Aina, Erica Nlewedim, Nengi Hampson & More  Can Mayowa make Leye see what he’s missing? Find Out on Episode 3 of “Game On”                                                                  