 Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has made it clear that the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) cannot issue a sit-at-home order to the people of his state since they are not part of South-East. Wike was involved in an interview on Channels Television’s Politics Today where he declared that IPOB doesn’t exist in Rivers. Wike said, “IPOB cannot make an order for people to sit at home in Rivers State. I have said so clearly before because it doesn’t exist in Rivers State. Rivers State is not part of South-East. Rivers State is South-South, we’re in the Niger Delta. “I’m not saying whether the people in the South-East shouldn’t obey what IPOB has said or not. But they cannot give orders to Rivers people to sit at home.” Recall the Imo state government also asked residents of the state to ignore a sit-at-home order issued by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The state’s Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, charged the people to disobey the order. He said: “Just when the government has successfully brought the state back to normalcy, these vicious enemies have contrived another rumour to the effect that security agents have been instructed to shoot and kill Imo youths extra judicially. I am here to urge my dear Imo youths to ignore this baseless rumour of them being targets of intimidation or assault by security agents, as the originators of this rumour are those who have vowed to make Imo ungovernable. I am, therefore, using this medium to appeal to our parents and guardians to rein in their children and wards against any form of demonstration in this volatile time. Those who are stoking the embers of this crisis will not put forward their children to be part of the battle. That is why my fellow parents should not allow their children to be Cannon fodder in a purely mindless matter. Once again, the government has not given any order for either the arrest or killing of innocent Imo youths. So, law-abiding citizens should go about their legitimate businesses without any fear or panic,”