 The movie industry has lost another veteran actor, filmmaker, and dancer Abiodun Aleja to the icy hands of death. Abiodun Aleja was reportedly passed on in the late hours of Friday, May 21st at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). The chairman of the Lagos Chapter of the National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners, (NANTAP), Mkainde Adeniran broke the news of the death of the veteran actor. One of the associates from his all school took to his Facebook page and mourned him with a piece of tribute…. Just got the sad news of your death, it is heart-wrenching and devastating. You were a shining star amongst us, a very free spirit man, jovial and caring, if there is the need for a moment of laughter, Abiodun you are the go to person because for you there is never a dull moment. We all prayed and hoped for your recovery as we were not ready to lose you and your amiable personality to the cold hands of death, we looked forward to you coming back to the school platform to crack us up, as usual, we looked forward to seeing you back on your feet doing what you know how to do best, movie making. You were a complete gentleman, a perfect family man who loved and cherished his wife, who cared for his children. Your family, friends, and loved ones were your priority as you looked out for us all, you checked up on us always to know how we are doing and you prayed for mutual progress for all. Your death is a personal loss to me as I still can’t get over the news, I am saddened that death came to you at an age when your esteemed talent and services are still very useful to your profession and humanity, death came at a time when your wife and children would need you around them the most as the man of the house, as a father and confidant, death came at a point when in OGS class of 1978-83 we are counting our gains and success as old students. I am pained and saddened by your monumental loss a few hours ago, I pray that God grants you eternal rest and grant your loving wife, kids, and family the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss while He also consoles us in the OGS 1978-83 family.