 Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries FC are back to winning ways in the NPFL after seven games. The Olukoya Boys secured a deserved 2-0 triumph over struggling Adamawa United in Matchday 11 of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) decided at the Soccer Temple, Agege Stadium on Sunday. The Lagos-based team started the encounter mounting all the pressure on the visitors with lovely display as Akanni Elijah and Oladayo Alabi tormented Adamawa United’s defence. MFM took the lead in the 21st minute as Adeyinka Najeem put the Olukoya Boys in front with a  beautiful long-range effort after receiving a swift pass from Akanni. Elijah set up Oladayo Alabi for the second goal of the match with an exquisite pass to give the hosts a comfortable lead three minutes after the first goal.  Adamawa United came out strong in the second half of the game and created a lot of chances but failed to find the back of the net with MFM FC goalkeeper, Folarin Abayomi doing a yeoman’s job in between the sticks. With the 2-0 victory, the Olukoya Boys moved from 16th position on the league table to 14th with 13 points from 11 NPFL games. They will be visiting Katsina United this Thursday at the Muhammad Dikko Stadium. Elsewhere, Heartland continued their resurgence as they were forced to a 1-1 draw in Akure against Sunshine Stars. The Naze Millionaires took the lead in the 17th minute as Paschal Eze headed the visitors in front. Sunshine Stars’ Sadeeq Yusuf with his eighth goal of the campaign from the spot helped the Akure Gunners pull level and earn a share of the spoils with Heartland.  In Okigwe, Abia Warriors put up a ruthless display as they thrashed relegation battlers Warri Wolves 4-1. Godwin Abaje hit a brace while the duo of  Chukwuemeka Obioma and Paul Samson got a goal each to sink Warri Wolves FC Ifeanyi Ubah also had a big on Sunday, thrashing  Katsina United 3-0. Earlier on Saturday, Akwa United defeated Plateau United 1-0 at the Godswill Apkabio Stadium. FULL NPFL Results Ifeanyi Ubah 3-0 Katsina United Jigawa Golden Stars 1-0 Nasarawa United Lobi Stars 1-0 Kano Pillars MFM 2-0 Adamawa United Sunshine Stars 1-1 Heartland Abia Warriors 4-1 Warri Wolves Akwa United 1-0 Plateau Rangers 1-0 Kwara united Post Views: 
				78