2020 has been a very eventful year. First the Covid-19 pandemic hit, closely followed by Nigeria shutting its borders and imposing a nationwide lockdown and curfew. The Nigerian entertainment scene was also filled with several dramas during these trying times. From D’banj losing an endorsement deal following a rape allegation to Funke Akindele getting arrested, below are our top five celebrity controversial moments. With the coronavirus pandemic, the entire country had to deal with a unique challenge. Lockdown measures were put down in Nigeria to curb the spread of the virus. The measures were simple: ‘no parties, no congregation, etc. but one celebrity was caught flouting this rule’. During the lockdown in Lagos, Nigeria, Nigerian star Funke Akindele hosted a private birthday party for her husband, JJC Skillz at their home. Clips from the little soiree emerged online which drew backlash from Nigerians and the long arm of the law. Police arrested Funke Akindele and her husband and they were both arraigned before a magistrate court and found guilty. Akindele tendered a heartfelt apology while the Lagos state government later granted the movie star and her hubby, state pardon.  D’banj was embroiled in a huge scandal that threatened to leave his legacy in tatters. The singer was accused of rape by Miss Seyitan Babtayo when Benjamin Ese, a model scout, first alleged on Twitter that D’banj had raped her at Glee Hotel in Victoria Island, Lagos back in 2018. The girl Babatayo, a model, confirmed the allegation which led to the biggest Nigerian celebrity scandal of 2020. D’banj was then accused of kidnapping Babatayo and forced her to delete her tweet and using the police to intimidate the accuser. However, after weeks of accusations and counter-accusations, D’banj and Babatayo finally settled their case out of court.  Popular Nigerian music video director, Clarence Peters made headlines following the sudden death of popular dancer and video vixen, Love Divine popularly known as Picture Kodak. The director was detained by the Lagos State Police Command for questioning over the sudden death of the choreographer. This happened after reports emerged that the popular dancer died at Peters’ house on Wednesday, April 29, 2020, while charging her phone. According to the spokesperson for the Lagos State Police Command, Bala Elkana, Peters was looking at a possible murder charge.  9ice, Sunkanmi Akande and daughter Popular Nigerian singer Alexander Abolore ‘9ice’ Adegbola Akande was trending for almost a month following his infamous video telling Nigerians to help beg his wife. The superstar was caught in a compromising video with another woman leading to his wife’s departure from their home. The award-winning singer, later admitted to cheating on his wife, Sunkami Akande, with a lady identified as Tiwalope, which got a lot of people talking.  Up and coming music star, Lil Frosh real name, Sanni Goriola also known as Lil Frosh got entangled in an alleged domestic violence drama which saw him loose his recording deal with Davido. In September 2020, a young man identified as Michael accused the singer of allegedly beating up his sister, Iyomaterire Okeoghene Taiwo, a video vixen, whom the musician was dating with photos as evidence.