 Atletico Madrid vs Real Madrid  Real Madrid will be out to reduce the deficit against Atletico Madrid in the La Liga when they face the leaders on Saturday. Atletico Madrid is also willing to end their poor outing against Real Madrid in La Liga, though the won the clash against Villarreal in their last game. The clash at Wanda Metropolitano will be decisive for the run to the La Liga title, as the win for either side will influence the run to clinch the title. Diego Simeone’s men have dropped in some vital points before this clash and they have made the La Liga an open race for the top teams. Real Madrid is gradually recovering from the injury plaque having earned a 1-1 draw in their last La Liga clash against Real Sociedad. Prediction: This clash is expected to end Real Madrid favour with a slim goal margin at the Wanda Metropolitano. Betpay offer 2.75 odds for Real Madrid to win. Bayern Munich vs  Borussia Dortmund  Bayern Munich take on Borussia Dortmund in Der Klassiker on Saturday, with the visitors looking to win their third successive league game to boost their chances of qualifying for next season’s Champions League. After a minor blip, Bayern returned to winning ways last weekend to stay two points clear at the top of the table, while Dortmund have fourth in their sights. The Bavarian giant are on a run of two back-to-back victories, scoring a combined nine goals in the process, while Bayern’s last five meetings produced over 2,5 goals, and all of the same four also saw both involved sides to score. The Bavarians are unbeaten at Allianz Arena in the previous twelve months, while Dortmund qualified for the semi-finals of DFB Pokal, after triumphing with a slender 0:1 away to Borussia Monchengladbach on Tuesday. The team is currently on a four-game winning streak and undefeated in five consecutive matches. Betpay offers Bayern Munich win or draw plus over 2.5 goals the odds goes for 1.60 in this match on the platform. Burnley vs Arsenal  Arsenal will be looking to close the gap in the race for European football when they travel to face Burnley in the Premier League on Saturday early kickoff. The Gunners slumped to a 1-0 defeat in the reverse fixture at the Emirates Stadium, though, and Burnley could now complete a league double over Arsenal for the first time since 1962-63. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang enjoys playing against Burnley, scoring seven goals in six Premier League games against the Clarets, more than he has managed against any other side in the competition. Prediction: Betpay offers Arsenal win or draw plus over 1.5 goals with odds goes for 1.45 in this match on the platform. Manchester City vs Manchester United  Runaway leaders Manchester City will look to tighten their grip on the Premier League title when they host rivals Manchester United. The Citizens are in total control of the Premier League title race after winning each of their last 21 matches in all competitions and unbeaten run to a club record-equalling 28 matches and they could break more records when their cross-town enemies enter the Etihad on Sunday. Pep Guardiola’s star-studded side extended their stunning winning sequence when they hammered Wolves 4-1 in their midweek encounter. Manchester United falling off the pace as goals have dried up for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer side after drew a blank at Chelsea and Crystal Palace to remain second, but are now looking over their shoulder at other top-four hopefuls rather than up towards City at a potential title challenge. Predictions: Betpay offers 1.50 odds for Manchester City straight win in the weekend encounter at Etihad Stadium. Juventus vs Lazio  Juventus take on Lazio in a crunch Serie A clash at Allianz Arena on Saturday, as they look to keep alive their faint hopes of catching Inter Milan in the Scudetto race. The Bianconeri are currently third in Serie A but have the same number of points and same goal difference as Atalanta. In their last game on Tuesday night, Juventus beat Spezia 3-0 to bounce back from a 1-1 draw against Hellas Verona last weekend. Lazio, on the other hand, are six points off the top four and face a fight if they are to compete again in the UEFA Champions League next season. Predictions: Betpay offers 2.00 odds for Juventus win or draw plus both side to score each other in the encounter in Turin. Sporting Lisbon vs Santa Clara  The Primeira Liga action continues on Friday evening when Sporting CP play host to Santa Clara at the Estádio José Alvalade. Runaway Primeira Liga leaders, Sporting CP, already hold a commanding nine-point lead at the top of the division over 2nd placed Sporting Braga but the hosts will be looking to increase the deficit to 12 points when they play on Friday night. Sporting CP are now unbeaten in their last 19 matches at home which includes 16 wins, 13 clean sheets and they’ve also won the previous eight meetings on the trot against Santa Clara too. Predictions: Betpay offers 1.45 odds for Sporting Lisbon straight win on the platform. Ajax vs Groningen  Ajax continue their march towards another Dutch title as they welcome Groningen to the Johan Cruyff Arena for a Dutch Eredivisie clash. The Amsterdam club prepared for the visit of Groningen with a comfortable 3-0 victory over Heerenveen in the Dutch Cup on Wednesday. Groningen are also coming off a victory as they triumphed 1-0 at home against Fortuna Sittard in their last Eredivisie fixture. The result ended a run of two straight defeats for Groningen who are still in the running for a European finish. Predictions: Betpay offer 1.20 odds for Ajax straight win on the platform. Osasuna vs Barcelona  After a superb comeback that took them to the Copa Del Rey final, Barcelona are back in La Liga action on Saturday when they face Osasuna. The Blaugrana are currently second in La Liga, five points behind Atletico Madrid, who have a game in hand at the moment. Ronald Koeman’s side are level on points with Real Madrid and are only ahead on goal difference. Osasuna are currently 12th in La Liga and are in decent form, having won three of their last four matches. In their last game, Kike Barja scored a 77th-minute winner as they beat Alaves 1-0. Barcelona have won 22 of the last 37 games that they have played against Osasuna, losing just six. Predictions: Betpay offers 1.55 odds for Barcelona win on the platform. Post Views: 
				75