 Sadiq Umar and Joe Aribo were among the Naija players that found the back of the net as the country’s players continue to distinguish themselves with their various teams. Sadiq scored once again for Almeria but it was not enough to secure all the three points, as they were held to a 2-2 draw at home by Sabadell in the Spanish second division on Sunday. Sadiq has now scored 10 goals in the league and takes his total tally to 12 in 20 appearances in all competitions for Almeria this season. Sunday’s goal means he has now scored six goals in his last three games. Still, in Spain, Flying Eagles teammates, Kelechi Nwakali and Samuel Chukwueze were both missing in action as Huesca and Villareal played a barren draw at the Estadio El Alcoraz. While Nwakali was benched for 90 minutes, injured Chuwkwueze was not in the matchday squad for the Yellow Submarines.  Scotland In Scotland, Joe Aribo got one of the goals as Glasgow Rangers provided another ruthless display; beating Ross County 5-0  at the Ibrox in a Scottish Premier League game. The Nigeria international who scored his side’s third goal in the 37th minute was taken off for Cedric Itten in the 67th minute. Sunday’s goal by Arbio is his fifth in 17 appearances in the SPL this season. His compatriots, Leon Balogun and Calvin Bassey were however unused substitutes in Sunday’s big win.  Italy In Italy, Victor Osimhen after three months of inactivity made his much-anticipated return for Napoli. Osimhen, however, fired blanks on his return as Napoli slumped to a 3-1 loss to Hellas Verona in the Italian Serie A on Sunday. Osimhen 22,  last played for Gli Azzurri in November after picking up a shoulder injury, which saw him miss seven games. He came on for Andrea Petagna in the 65th minute but failed to get an addition to the two goals scored so far for the Italian giants in seven Serie A appearances. Elsewhere, Simeon Nwankwo proved he is a proven goalscorer as he banged in his seventh Serie A goal of the season for bottom-placed Crotone in their 2-1 loss away at Fiorentina on Saturday. Simy’s 66th-minute strike could only serve as a consolation for the Pitagorici as they suffered their 13th loss of the season to remain in the relegation zone.  England In England, Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi were in action in Leicester City’s 3-1 win over Brentford in the FA Cup fourth round on Sunday. Iheanacho came on for Under in the 76th minute, while Ndidi replaced Nampalys Mendy in the 70th minute. Watford defender William Troost-Ekong had the better of his former national team captain, Mikel Obi, in the English Championships as he helped Watford to a 2-1 at Stoke City on Friday. Both players saw 90 minutes of action in the encounter. The result has further increased Watford’s promotion hopes. Germany In Germany, Taiwo Awoniyi provided an assist for Marcus Ingvartsen in Union Berlin’s 2-1 loss to Augsburg in the Bundesliga on Saturday. Union have lost their last two games, while Awoniyi has scored five goals with three assists. Turkey Anthony Nwakaeme provided an assist in Trabzonspor’s 2-1 win over Genclerbirligi in the Turkish Super Lig on Saturday. Nwakaeme has four assists and nine goals this season. Elsewhere, forward Peter Olayinka was on target in Slavia Prague’s 3-1 win over 10-man Karvina in the Karvina Czech League on Saturday. Post Views: 
				47