 Fcnaija has all the happening around the La Liga this weekend, with Real Madrid and Real Sociedad among the teams that dropped points this weekend. Barcelona and Sevilla among the top gainer of the weekend with Atletico Madrid still the league leader despite their game against Athletic Bilbao suspended.  CELTA VIGO 0-4 VILLARREAL: The Yellow Submarine in charge at Balaidos Villarreal defeated Celta Vigo 4-0 on Friday, with the whole goals scored on in the opening 31st minutes of the clash at the Balaidos Stadium. Villarreal scored the opening goal in the fifth minute via Moreno, Moi Gomez, Dani Parejo and Fer Nino Fer. Samuel Chukwueze was used as a substitute in the 66th minute when he replaced Etienne Capoue.  GRANADA 0-4 BARCELONA: Messi leads the race for the Pichichi award Lionel Messi and Antoine Griezmann combined well to aim the vital three points against Granada on Saturday with both scoring a brace each in the 4-0 win at Los Carmenes. Barcelona had a comfortable outing against Diego Martinez’s men.
Barcelona is now third on the La Liga standings with just four points behind Atletico Madrid who has three games in hand. Messi brace makes him the leader in the race for the Pichichi award, he is one goal ahead of Villarreal Gerard Moreno.  SEVILLA 3-2 REAL SOCIEDAD: Early season form deserts La Real Julen Lopetegui’s men earn their mark once again against Real Sociedad in the 3-2 over the Basque team on Saturday at Sanchez Pizjuan. Youssef En Nesyri was the main man of the match, the Moroccan attacker scored a hat-trick for the home team. Though Real Sociedad was able to hold the Europa League Champions in the first half it was En Nesyri second-half goal that proved the difference.  OSASUNA 0-0 REAL MADRID: Los Blancos lose further ground Real Madrid was unable to grab the three points against Osasuna in the El Sadar Stadium, the La Liga Champions pressed high but they were unable to find the back of the net following a good defensive display from Osasuna. It was another poor night for Eden Hazard and Karim Benzema to forget the French striker was kept silent all night as Real Madrid were made to search for the three points.  LEVANTE 2-1  EIBAR: Los Armeros close to relegation zone after defeat Levante 2-1 win over Eibar has condemned the Los Armeros close to the relegation zone, Jose Luis Mendilibar has a serious task in his hand for the rest of the season following the loss to Levante. It was looking as if Eibar was going to win this tie after the first half ended in a stalemate, and in the 51st minute Takashi Inui scored for the visitors but two goals from Gonzalo Melero and Jose Morales ensured the host claimed the three points for the Granotas on Sunday evening.  CADIZ 3-1 ALAVES: New promoted Cadiz continue to make waves in La Liga
Cadiz gained promotion to La Liga this season and they have shown great determination and to remain in the top-flight for another season, the lowly budget La Liga team defeat Real Madrid and Barcelona this season. The Nuevo Estadio Ramon de Carranza outfit defeated Alaves 3-1 to continue their impressive run in the La Liga. Cadiz has 23 points from 18 games and they are ninth on the La Liga log.  REAL VALLADOLID 0-1 VALENCIA: Carlos Soler scored a lone goal in the 76th minute to ensure the Bats claimed three points against the host in the 76th minute. Valencia was the best team of the two on Sunday night, though Javi Garcia’s men are not in their best form this season after seeing some of their stars leave for Villarreal and club in the Premier League during the last summer transfer.  Atletico Madrid vs Athletic Bilbao:
The clash between the La Liga leader and the San Mames outfit was postponed due to disruptions from a snowstorm in Spain, the league said in a statement. Roads were blocked and Madrid airport was closed due to Storm Filomena on Friday. It will be rescheduled for a later date. Atletico Madrid maintain the top of the log despite having games in hand. Post Views: 
				81