 The exciting Europa League round of 32 returns on Thursday evening with BetPay offering the highest football odds. Our Experts punters at Betpay have selected these few sure games to enjoy the highest reward on all Europa League games. Braga vs Roma Braga will test their strength against might Roma in the Round of 32 in the Europa League, the Portuguese team has been unbeaten in seven games, interestingly Braga has never lost to an Italian team in a competitive game while playing at home. Braga is a high scoring side they’ve only lost one of their last 12 Europa League home games (including qualifiers), scoring first in the remaining 11 games (Win 7, Draw 4). The clash is seen as a game where the goal flood gate will be open, both teams are tipped to score two goals each. Over 3.5 is visible in the match because both teams are out to bang goals, BetPay offer an odd of 3.00. Prediction: Braga 2-2 AS Roma. Real Sociedad vs Manchester United Real Sociedad will take on Manchester United in the Europa League round of 32 the match will be held behind closed doors at Juventus Stadium in Turin, Italy due to coronavirus travel restrictions between the UK and Spain. Both teams are set up offensively, with both managers Imanol Alguacil Barrenetxea and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer are a huge fan of attacking style of football. This match is supposed to witness more than two goals, with over 2.5 the best bet for this thrilling encounter between Real Sociedad and Manchester United with BetPay offering an odd of 1.90 for 2.5. Prediction: Real Sociedad 2-2 Manchester United. Young Boys vs Bayer Leverkusen Young Boys take on Bayer Leverkusen in the first leg of their Europa League last-32 knockout-stage tie at Stadion Wankdorf in Bern on Thursday evening. The German outfit progressed as winners of Group C, with their forthcoming Swiss opponents finishing second in Group A. Our expert tipster partners at Betpay are predicting over 1.5 with odds goes for 1.20 on the platform. Another possible outcome Bayer Leverkusen double chance bet on a draw or an away win in this match goes for 1.28 on Betpay. Prediction: Young Boys 1-3 Bayer Leverkusen Lille vs Ajax The Ligue 1 leaders take on the Eredivisie leaders in a mouthwatering Europa League showdown on Thursday as Lille welcome Ajax to the Stade Pierre-Mauroy for the first leg of their last-32 tie. Christophe Galtier’s men qualified for the knockout stages as runners-up in Group H, whereas Ajax dropped down from the Champions League after finishing third in their group. Our expert tipster partners at Betpay are predicting over 1.5 in this match at the Stade Pierre-Mauroy with the odds goes for 1.29 on the platform. Both teams are solid in the attack which means there is some value in the goals market with odds goes for 1.70 on Betpay, while over 2.5 goals are offered at 1.95 with the same firm. Prediction: Lille 1-1 Ajax Wolfsberger AC vs Tottenham Hotspur Tottenham Hotspur will be aiming to qualify for the next phase of the UEFA Europa League when they lock horns with Wolfsberger AC in the Round of 32 first leg at Puskas Arena. The Austrian team finished second in Group K behind Dinamo Zagreb after winning three of their six games, while Spurs have lost five of their last six matches in all competitions. Our expert tipster partners at Betpay are predicting under 3.5 goals in this match and the odds goes for 1.45 on the platform. Tottenham have avoided defeat in nine of their last 10 Europa League outings and the Londoners best price is away win which goes for 1.45. Prediction: Wolfsberger 0-2 Tottenham Post Views: 
				49