 Anele ‘Nelli’ Tembe’s (22) family has released a statement confirming that she passed away on Sunday morning, 11 April 2021. Tembe was engaged to rapper, Kiernan ‘AKA’ Forbes. In the joint statement from the Tembe and Forbes families, it’s revealed that AKA is currently inconsolable and is surrounded by family and his closest friends. “It is with the deepest regret that we, the Tembe and Forbes families, confirm the untimely passing of our beloved fiancée, daughter, sister, daughter-in-law, Anele Tembe,” the statement read. She had a sweet nature about her and was always nurturing to those around her “We are still in shock and are dealing with our emotions, as she was an exceptional and gifted young woman, with so much life ahead of her. She had a sweet nature about her and was always nurturing to those around her.” The family went on to humbly ask for privacy and time to heal in this time of grief. It’s believed that Tembe is the 22-year-old female whose body was found on Sunday morning on the corners of Loop and Bloem streets in Cape Town CBD, but this is yet to be confirmed. Netcare 911 spokesperson, Shawn Herbst said this in a statement: “Paramedics on scene have said a female had allegedly jumped from the 10th floor of that building. When paramedics arrived on scene, she had sustained polytraumatic injuries.” He added: “She was in critical condition and they started a full life-support resuscitation. Unfortunately her injuries were too severe and she was declared deceased.” Earlier this year, AKA had taken to his social media pages to announce his engagement to Tembe. He posted a picture with Tembe’s left hand adorned with a stunning band on her ring finger and captioned it: “21/01/2021”. Posting the same picture on her Instagram account, Nellie revealed that she said yes and called AKA the “love” of her life. The pair had recently shared images of them with their respective families in what seemed to be lobola negotiations. AKA recently posted Instagram stories that showed that the couple were together in Cape Town the day before she passed. He shows them out shopping, having lunch and on a night out with friends. It’s still unclear exactly what happened to Tembe.