 The Champions League returns this evening as Liverpool face RB Leipzig in the first-leg of their last-16 meeting at Puskas Arena in Hungry. Jurgen Klopp’s Reds are enduring a real period of woe, winning only three of their last 12 matches across all competitions including 3-1 loss to Leicester City last Saturday. RB Leipzig will have to relinquish home advantage here but Liverpool will expect a stern test from the German club who is enjoying an excellent season, second to Bayern Munich in the Bundesliga, and emerged from a tough group including Manchester United and PSG. Team News Ibrahima Konate came off the bench last week after nearly two months out but Emil Forsberg, Konrad Laimer, Benjamin Henrichs and Dominik Szoboszlai are all unlikely to be available. James Milner became another Liverpool casualty after injuring his hamstring against Leicester, joining Virgil van Dijk, Joe Gomez, Naby Keita, Diogo Jota, Joel Matip, Fabinho, Ben Davies, Divock Origi and Caoimhin Kelleher on the sidelines. Head to Head This will be the first-ever meeting between the Premier League and Bundesliga sides. Probable Lineup (3-4-2-1): Gulacsi; Konate, Upamecano, Orban; Mukiele, Sabitzer, Kampl, Angelino; Olmo, Nkunku; Poulsen. Probable Lineup (4-3-3): Alisson; Alexander-Arnold, Kabak, Henderson, Robertson; Thiago, Wijnaldum, Jones; Salah, Firmino, Mane. Betting Tips Our expert tipster partners at BetPay are predicting under 3.5 goals in this match with odds goes for 1.45 This should be another open match in Hungry with both sides expected to find the back of the net with odds are 1.55 on BetPay. Liverpool tipped to get the win at Budapest’s Puskas Stadium in the Champions League last 16 first leg with odds goes at 2.20 However, another possible outcome is Jurgen Klopp win or draw 1.40 but 2.5 could eventually happen for 1.65 odds. Prediction: RB Leipzig 1-1 Liverpool this is likely to be the scoreline, both teams will play cautiously ahead of the second leg, BetPay offer 8.05 odds. Post Views: 
				62