 Gernot Rohr has targeted another Rangers players of Nnamdi Ofoborh and Calvin Bassey for Super Eagles set-up in the nearest future. The 21-year-old England-born joined Steven Gerrard side on a four-year contract in the January transfer window after rejecting Bournemouth new deal before spends the remaining part of the season on loan with Wycombe Wanderers. Bassey 21, switches to Rangers at the start of this season from Leicester City’s youth team, and the left-back has featured in eight league games for the current Scottish Premier League leaders. However, Bassey is eligible to play for Super Eagles despite he was born in Italy and grow up in England, while Ofoborh has represented Nigeria at the youth level and was a member of the Flying Eagles squad to the Under-20 World Cup finals in Poland last year. Rohr has been monitoring Rangers youngsters Bassey and Ofoborh, with the possibility of inviting them to the Super Eagles team set-up as he told Record Sport. “We have been watching Rangers a lot and scouting all their games and there’s also Calvin Bassey and Nnamdi Ofoborh who is an Under-20 international who both have Nigerian roots so the challenge is there for them to join them. “It is great that they are getting so much exposure and success at a club the size of Rangers and, as well as domestically, they have played at a very high level in Europe. “It would be great for our players – Balogun and Aribo – if Rangers won the title, as Super Eagles added. “I played a friendly in Glasgow with Bordeaux and it was a full house – even for a friendly game – so I have good memories and I’m delighted they are getting to experience that, although Leon hasn’t yet had the chance to play in front of the fans. “I have known Balogun for a very long time. He has a German mentality and has good speed which is very important for a central defender or full-back as he can play both positions. “There is no difference for Leon Balogun playing at right-back for Rangers just now because he’s played there before, for Nigeria and in Germany sometimes. “He’s quick and intelligent and can change his position very quickly. For me, he’s strong enough to play either position. In the 2018 World Cup, he played at the right of a three-man central defence so is not quite a right back. “I watched him playing in Germany for Mainz before I joined the Nigerian national team so I knew all about the boy. He was born in Germany and speaks German so we have a good relationship. “Leon has a very good character and self-confidence and I was happy when he moved to Glasgow Rangers because he didn’t play enough in England. “Leon is one of the leaders in my group and I’m happy he has had success in European competition with Rangers. He is also one of my vice-captains, we have a young team in Nigeria and he is an experienced player which is vital. “I’m very satisfied with Leon and Joe, particularly with the attitude of them both.” Balogun Aribo and Bassey will be expected to feature when the Rangers take on Livingston in their next league game on Wednesday. Post Views: 
				110