 NPFL Round-Up There were two away wins among the matchday eight games of the Nigeria Professional Football League played on Wednesday across the country. The away victories were recorded in Lafia and Gombe as Enyimba pipped Nasarwa United 2-1 while Akwa United edged Adamawa United 1-0 at their adopted home ground. The Peoples’ Elephant were gifted the lead in Lafia courtesy of Abdullahi Abubakar’s 16th own goal but Chinedu Ohanachom restored parity for the hosts four minutes afterwards. Nasarwa United shot themselves in the foot again when they conceded a penalty on the half-hour mark and it was expertly taken and scored by Cyril Olisema. A stout defensive display by Enyimba saw them holding on to the slim win that has now shot them to the top spot on the NPFL standings. For Akwa United, Mfon Udoh was the hero for the Promise Keepers as his 58th-minute goal gave the Promise Keeper vital points on the road having dropped a handful in some of their home games. In Enugu, Rangers returned to winning ways in style as they thrashed Dakkada FC 3-0 at the Nnamdi Azikwe Stadium fondly referred to as the ‘Cathedral’. Christian Nnaji scored twice in the second half for the Flying Antelopes after Israel Abia had given them the lead during the first 45 minutes. Kano  Pillars were too strong for Jigawa Golden Stars as they secured a routine 2-0 win over the Dutse Boys. An identical scoreline was also recorded in the Wikki Tourists and MFM clash as the home team picked the maximum points. Plateau United were denied a share of the spoils in Ozoro as Warri Wolves did just enough to claim a 1-0 win and the maximum points at stake. Efe Yarhere’s 71st-minute goal made all the difference in that encounter Though Kwara United’s goalkeeper Dele Aiyenugba finally conceded for the first time this season, the Afonja Warriors were still victorious after they registered a 2-1 win over visiting Lobi Stars. NPFL RESULTS Nasarawa Utd 1-2 Enyimba Adamawa Utd 0-1 Akwa Utd Kano Pillars 2-0 Jigawa GS Wikki 2-0 MFM Kwara Utd 2-1 Lobi Abia Warriors 4-1 Sunshine Stars Rangers 3-0 Dakkada Wolves 1-0 Plateau Utd Post Views: 
				103