2020 has been a year full of several happenings across the world. First the entire world activities got shut down due to a pandemic that painfully claimed several lives, closely followed by the #BlackLivesMatter movement and the world trying to end racism and police brutality. In Nigeria several happenings had a profound effect on governance, politics and entertainment. Below are our biggest stories of the year.  Nigeria shut down its borders and activities to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus on March 30, 2020. The lockdown saw restrictions on businesses and curfews extending well into the year The Nigerian economy and polity is yet to recover from the shutdowns. There is still plenty of hunger, frustration and poverty in the land as the economy has contracted and as the country plunges into an inevitable recession. Politicians across the land are still answering questions on how to fix an ailing economy and there’s been unrest and social tension across the polity due to rising inequality.  Funke Akindele and husband, JJC Skillz penalized by Lagos State Government (Source: BBC) With the coronavirus pandemic, the entire country had to deal with a unique challenge. Lockdown measures were put down in Nigeria to curb the spread of the virus. The measures were simple: ‘no parties, no congregation, etc. but one celebrity was caught flouting this rule’. During the lockdown in Lagos, Nigeria, Nigerian star Funke Akindele hosted a private birthday party for her husband, JJC Skillz at their home. Clips from the little soiree emerged online which drew backlash from Nigerians and the long arm of the law. Police arrested Funke Akindele and her husband and they were both arraigned before a magistrate court and found guilty. Akindele tendered a heartfelt apology while the Lagos state government later granted the movie star and her hubby, state pardon.  D’banj was embroiled in a huge scandal that threatened to leave his legacy in tatters. The singer was accused of rape by Miss Seyitan Babtayo when Benjamin Ese, a model scout, first alleged on Twitter that D’banj had raped her at Glee Hotel in Victoria Island, Lagos back in 2018. The girl Babatayo, a model, confirmed the allegation which led to the biggest Nigerian celebrity scandal of 2020. D’banj was then accused of kidnapping Babatayo and forced her to delete her tweet and using the police to intimidate the accuser. However, after weeks of accusations and counter-accusations, D’banj and Babatayo finally settled their case out of court.  A protester displays a placard at the entrance of the Murtala Muhammed Airport during protest against unjust brutality of The Nigerian Police Force Unit, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), in Ikeja, Lagos on October 19, 2020. (Source: Benson Ibeabuchi / AFP) (Photo by BENSON IBEABUCHI/AFP via Getty Images) In early October, an incident in Delta State sparked outrage across the country which led to nationwide protests against police brutality, extortion, profiling and extra-judicial killings. The protests were staged in most states in Nigeria. Curfews were later imposed and law enforcement was directed to quell the protests. Hoodlums and thugs then took advantage of the shooting of unarmed protesters at the Lekki toll gate on October 20, 2020, to loot businesses, burn properties, sack Police officers out of their stations and unleash anarchy on the land.  Vice President Yemi Osinbajo offered an apology to young Nigerians in the thick of the police brutality protests in October, he appeared to be bucking a trend. “Dear Nigerians, I know that many of you are angry, and understandably so. We could’ve moved faster and for this we are sorry. I fully understand how many young people feel. Many feel that we have been too silent and have simply not done enough. These feelings of frustration are justified,” the vice president said. A very rare occurrence from a politician.