Google Arts & Culture and the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC) jointly launched a new project called ‘Eko for Show’ today, April 28, 2021. Since 2020, Google Arts & Culture has partnered with NTDC to accelerate the growth of domestic tourism in Nigeria and have now launched a platform to help visitors and users navigate and enjoy Lagos. “To ignore the creativity of Lagos is to completely miss the creativity of Africa. The advantages of using the new digital technologies cannot be understated. Google has come into Nigeria and partnered with NTDC to deepen the penetration of technology into our everyday lives. To truly understand and feel the vibe of Lagos, you have to immerse yourself into the fabric of Lagos society, you have to get into the people, eat their food, go to their beaches, wear what they wear, go to their tailors and their markets.”  Said Folorunsho Coker, Director General, Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC) at the virtual launch of ‘Eko for Show’.  Folorunsho Coker, Director General, Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC) According to him, NTDC and Google Arts & Culture are determined to shine a spotlight on the country’s diverse cultural heritage, breathtaking landscapes, its creatives and its vibrant and welcoming spirit.  Juliet Ehimuan, Country Director, Google Nigeria Juliet Ehimuan, Country Director, Google Nigeria, also has high hopes that the new project will help raise the profiles of creatives and entrepreneurs in Lagos. “As a proud resident of Lagos, I am thrilled to see Lagos and its creative communities being celebrated as part of Eko for Show. It has been an honor to work with the seven cultural institutions who helped bring the content to life and their teams in Lagos. I really hope this new platform will help raise the profiles of artists, entrepreneurs and the Lagos creative scene at large,” she said. Other speakers at the virtual event include: Uzamat Akinbile Yussuf (Hon. Commissioner for Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Lagos State), Amit Sood (Founder and Director, Google Arts and Culture) and Jackie Ugokwe (Policy Manager, Google Nigeria). About Eko for Show Eko for Show is a collaboration between seven cultural institutions offering everyone a glimpse into what makes Lagos an epicentre for creativity. Users will explore more than 8000 photographs, 80 online stories, 3 Street View experiences, 175 videos and virtually meet the city’s music makers, visual artists, trendsetters, foodies and storytellers.