 In-form Manchester United visit second-place Leicester on Boxing Day for what promises to be an interesting game of football and our partners Betpay brings you the preview and betting tips. Sitting in the top-flight’s top two for consecutive Christmas Days is a club-first for Leicester City and the gift their fans would have wanted, however a Boxing Day clash against a record-breaking Manchester United side that are unbeaten in 12 competitive H2Hs (W9, D3), could quickly spoil their Christmas cheer and title credentials. That’s especially so, as with an average of just 1.29 goals scored per Premier League (PL) home game, and four top-flight home defeats so far (W3) – the same number they registered during the entirety of 2019/20 – the ‘Foxes’ have been disappointing, and unpredictable, here this season. What has been predictable recently is the eventual winner here, as ten straight competitive matches at the King Power Stadium have been won by the team that scored first. However that directly contrasts with United’s performances on the road, as the ‘Red Devils’ have won all six PL away games this term despite conceding the opener every time – a PL first. That astonishing feat has made it ten straight top-flight away wins, putting United on the cusp of a record-equalling 11th. After matching a top-flight scoring record set in 1960 by netting 2+ goals in all ten of those road trips (and 3+ in all six this season) United will have a swagger in their step. That, coupled with hammering Leeds 6-2 at home in their last PL match after going 3-0 up within 20 minutes – something they last did in the league in August 2006 – has United travelling here top of the PL’s ten-game form table (W7, D2, L1). Odds A Leicester win has 2.90 odds on Betpay, while a Manchester United win has 2.40 and a draw attracts odds of 3.80. Betting Tips A potentially tricky tie has our tipsters permutating over several possible outcomes and have predicted a Manchester United win or a draw and there are odds of 1.40 on Betpay for that possibility. Prediction Leicester 1-2 Manchester United