 The love month is finally coming to an end and you must agree that it has been quite interesting. There have been all sorts of ‘displays of love’ in cute and hilarious ways, but the most important thing is the thoughtfulness. As the month of love is ending, the practice of showing love and appreciation to yourself and your loved ones shouldn’t end. It is one that should be expressed everyday. A great new device is a sure way to express love to yourself and your loved ones. Here are the highlights of vivo Y51 you shouldn’t miss out on: The triple camera feature with 48MP+ 8MP + 2MP cameras at its rear and 16MP selfie camera allows for crisp and clear shots. Users can navigate several camera modes and wider angles for more variety when taking shots. Shooting videos with a mobile device has never been easier than this. With the amazing ultra-stable video feature of the vivo Y51, asides from getting a high resolution in terms of quality, the focus the device maintains when capturing video is relatively stable. You may not understand that this is such an amazing feature until you try it out. The vivo Y51 is an energy saving device with a battery capacity of 5000mAh and an 18W fast charging efficiency. This is a great choice and an efficient option especially for those always on the move. This phone boasts of an 11nm Octa-core, Snapdragon 662, and 8GB RAM + 128GB ROM which is expandable up to 1TB. The large storage space helps you create space to store important stuff. The screen of this device has a 6. 58″ FHD Halo Full view display for seamless streaming and gaming. The processor operates at high speed and runs on the latest Android 11 system and the company’s default OS – the latest Funtouch11. The display quality is 1080p, 1080 by 248 pixels and a high pixel density of 415. This feature enhances the quality experience for avid gamers and movie lovers.  This device has a single firing speaker at the bottom that has an improved sound quality and promises a better sound experience for users. From music, to movies to gaming, the audio feature transforms the whole experience. Headphones are also included in the box when purchased.  Another unique feature that stands this phone out from the rest is its sleek, mirror-like body design that comes in Titanium Sapphire and Crystal Symphony. Not to forget the fast and easy side fingerprint unlock system which is preferred by the cool kids. Moreso, the retail price of this device is just ?109,900 ($233), which is an amazing deal for a mid-range device. It is available for purchase at the Jumia store.  Be sure to follow @vivo_nigeria on Instagram, and Twitter, and @vivoon Facebook for more information. Also, join the conversation on vivo Nigeria facebook fans club.