 Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu The Governor of Lagos State Babajide Sanwo-Olu has promised to imprison anyone who flouts the COVID-19 protocols. This order comes after the coronavirus cases spiked in the state. According to him, a violator will have to spend 6 months in prison. On Saturday, Lagos state alone recorded over 1,040 cases of the virus making it the highest single-day infection recorded since the pandemic hit the country in February 2020. In a statement, he opined that people are not observing the protocols and that strict measures will have to be implemented as soon as possible. He said; “The State Government has observed with dismay the widespread flagrant disregard and non-adherence to guidelines and protocols aimed at stemming and curbing the tide of infection. We particularly note that some event centers have been operating their premises outside the acceptable parameters for operation/usage and continue to be recalcitrant in this regard. “This is to sound a very serious note of warning that henceforth all those found culpable and in breach of the existing regulations and guidelines would be swiftly and decisively dealt with in full accordance with the provisions of the law,” “Furthermore, and in line with the COVID-19 Health Protection Regulations 2021 signed last week by President Muhammadu Buhari, it is hereby directed that no gathering of more than 50 persons shall hold in an enclosed space, except for religious purposes, in which case the gathering shall not exceed 50% capacity of the space. “A breach of the provisions of the Presidential Regulations attracts upon summary conviction, a fine or six months imprisonment and or both. Our enforcement agencies have been appropriately tasked to ensure maximum compliance. “All Lagosians are enjoined to continue to observe all laid down guidelines and protocols issued by both the state and federal governments for the effective containment and treatment of the novel coronavirus disease,” he added. “To this end, a second oxygen plant is under construction at the Gbagada General Hospital, and will come on-stream within the next seven days. It is expected that this will boost the in-house capacity and availability of oxygen across all State Government managed treatment centers,” he said.