 Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has recapitulated the zeal of his administration to ensure quality education and promotion of equal opportunities for the girl child. United Kingdom (UK) Minister for Africa, Mr. James Duddridge; Prime Minister’s Trade Envoy to Nigeria and Special Envoy for Girls Education, Helen Grant and British Deputy High Commissioner, Mr. Ben Llewellyn-Jones, paid a courtesy visit to the Governor at the Lagos House, Ikeja. He said: “Lagos is leading in efforts to ensure our girls have access to quality education and promoting equal opportunities for the girl child because we believe this is critical to us in having a progressive society with shared prosperity. “We welcome the UK’s commitment as a key partner recognising our role as one of the largest economies in Africa and a force for commerce and trade in the region.” “Lagos is a wonderful place. It is an inspiration and economic place for many countries in the continent; a state which has strong relationship with the United Kingdom culturally, in business and a large diaspora. “I have really enjoyed my time in Nigeria and Lagos in particular, speaking to the Governor (Sanwo-Olu), who we have spoken a number of times before but not in person because of COVID-19. It is good to be back in Lagos and I am already planning my next trip to Lagos.” Special Envoy for Girls Education, Helen Grant also reiterated the commitment of the United Kingdom for quality education for girls. She said: “We are here because we really value our relationship with Nigeria. Nigeria’s success is very important to the United Kingdom and the continent of Africa. I think this is really an exciting time for Nigeria and the United Kingdom relations. The Prime Minister very much wants the UK to be Africa’s partner of choice and Nigeria’s partner of choice. “Girls education is something that is very close to the Prime Minister’s heart. He has said that he wants every girl to get 12 years of quality education and we know that is good for girls. But it is also good in leveling up society, boasting and developing economy of nations. That is very important to the UK and we know those things are also very important to Nigeria.”