 This FA Cup fourth round match comes hot on the heels of a goalless draw at Anfield between these sides, their seventh H2H draw in the last ten competitive matches. Including that stalemate, seven of Manchester United’s last 12 competitive games have returned under 2.5 goals (W8, D3, L1) raising the prospect of another low scoring affair. Boosting that theme, the ‘Red Devils’ have seen under 2.5 goals in three of their last four FA Cup matches against Premier League opponents. Nonetheless, with four wins in their last five competitive home matches (L1) and seven home wins ‘to nil’ in the FA Cup, United have a lot going for them in this match. Additionally, United are unbeaten in the last seven competitive home H2Hs (W3, D4) giving the non-visiting home fans a hope of inflicting more misery on a Liverpool side who have won just once in their last six competitive games (W1, D3, L2) and were stunned at home by Burnley midweek. That slump has seen ‘the Reds’ fail to score in four of their last five games with the 4-0 FA Cup win over a vastly under-strength Aston Villa the exception. Augmenting the difficulty of their task here is the fact that Liverpool have reached the FA Cup fifth round only once in Jurgen Klopp’s five previous seasons. Moreover, Liverpool haven’t won back-to-back FA Cup matches since February 2015! One small hope for Liverpool would be their competitive away form this season having lost just once (W4, D6, L1) since the calamitous 7-2 loss at Aston Villa. Worryingly though, five of those six scoring draws saw Liverpool squander the advantage of scoring first. Odds Betpay has Manchester United on 2.50 odds to win while offering 2.50 odds for Liverpool as well. In the event of a draw, odds of 3.80 are up for grabs. Betting Tip The Red Devils are on the ascendency while the Reds appear to be in some decline. However, in a game of this magnitude, form usually go out the window and our tipsters have ranked this one as a possible win for either side and Betpay offers odds of 1.23 for that possibility. Prediction Either side to win. Post Views: 
				42