 Many Nigerian players sold their wares over the weekend and performed well abroad as action continued across different European competitions. Topping the Nigeria team of the week are Simy Nwankwo, Semi Ajayi, Daniel Akpeyi, Wilfred Ndidi, and unknown Fortune Omonuware. Here is the FCniaja team of the week in a 4-3-3 formation. Daniel Akpeyi – Kaizer Chiefs Super Eagles goalkeeper was impressive in Kaizer Chiefs 2-1 win over Cape Town City in South African DSTV Premiership clash at the Cape Town Stadium on Saturday. The 34-year-old shot-stopper enjoyed a good outing and saved the team countless times on a day they recorded the third victory of the season. Akpeyi made a total of six saves in the match to help Kaizer Chiefs to climb eight places on the log. Abdullahi Shehu – Omonia Nicosia Former Kano Pillars was instrumental as Omonia Nicosia beat Ethnikos Achnas 2-0 in Cyprus First Division encounter at GSP Stadium. Shehu featured in the entire duration with Omonia Nicosia three-point adrift league leaders Apollon Limassol. Felix Agu – Werder Bremen It was a dream debut start for German-born Nigerian left-back who scored his first Bundesliga goal on Saturday to help his Werder Bremen side to an impressive 2-0 home win over Augsburg. The 21-year-old remains very much eligible to play for Super Eagles of Nigeria at the senior level. After a goalless first 45 minutes, Czech Republic defender Theodor Gabre Selassie opened scoring for the hosts with six minutes left in regulation time before Agu then made it 2-0 three minutes later with a fine finish to seal all 3 points for the host. The former VFL Osnabruck defender had an impressive game rating of 7.5, completing 82% of his passes, winning 9 duels, making 3 clearances, and 3 key tackles too. Semi Ajayi – West Brom Former Arsenal defender scored again and was outstanding as struggling West Bromwich Albion edged past local rivals Wolves 3-2 in the ‘Black Country Derby’. It was his team’s only second win since their return to the Premier League and it boosted their hopes of escaping relegation. Ajayi has been one of the shining lights for West Brom in recent games with his goal against Wolves his third in the last six games. William Troost-Ekong – Watford Super Eagles vice-captain played the 90 minutes for Watford in the 2-0 win over Huddersfield at Vicarage Road Stadium climbed to fifth in the Sky Bet Championship. Troost-Ekong and Francisco Sierralta kept a clean sheet in the encounter in his 13 league games of the season since joining the Hornet from Udinese. Wilfred Ndidi – Leicester City Super Eagles midfielder was on from start to finish as Leicester City showed they can still push for the title following their hard-fought 2-0 win at the King Power. The impressive Ndidi had a game rating of 7.4, winning 13 duels, making 3 clearances, 5 tackles whilst also completing 70% of his passes. John Obi Mikel – Stoke City Former Super Eagles captain was in action for Stoke as the 10-man Potters played out a 1-1 draw with Blackburn Rovers. Mikel made his 17 appearances in the Sky Bet Championship and the result means Stoke remain eighth, four points off a place in the playoff. Nonso Madueke – PSV Former Tottenham Hotspur trainee continues to make waves with another impressive performance for PSV in the 5-3 away win over Sparta Rotterdam Eredivisie clash. Madueke scored in 49th minutes after he taps in to pass Super Eagles goalkeeper Maduka Okoye to takes his goal involvement for the season to 14 (7 goals, 7 assists) from 22 matches in all competitions. Godwin Saviour – Casa Pia The former Nigeria U23 star was the match-winner for the Portuguese club, Casa Pia, to win at Varzim and climb to the top half of the Portuguese second division. It was his third goal in eight appearances for the Lisbon outfit. Simy Nwankwo – Crotone The big striker was Man of the Match with two goals in open play as well as an assist for Crotone to beat Benevento 4-1 in continuation of the Serie A. Nwankwo has now netted six goals in 18 matches this season. Sadiq Umar – UD Almeria The on-form striker notched a brace to propel UD Almeria to the Round of 16 of the Copa del Rey with a big win over Alaves. Former Roma striker has now scored 11 goals in all competitions since his arrival in Spain in the summer from Serbia. Goalkeeper – Daniel Akpeyi Defenders – Abdullahi Shehu, Semi Ajayi, William Troost-Ekong, Felix Agu Midfielders – Wilfred Ndidi, John Obi Mikel, Nonso Madueke Forwards – Godwin Saviour, Sadiq Umar, Simy Nwankwo Post Views: 
				86