 Big Brother Naija Lockdown has emerged as one of the most-watched television shows on Showmax in 2020. The show broke the Showmax live-stream record, becoming the most-watched live entertainment content on the streaming service. Asides BBNaija, several other TV shows, and movies made the top 10 list of most-watched content on Showmax in 2020. In alphabetic order, here are 10 Nigerian titles that emerged as most popular with Nigerians on Showmax in 2020. We’re kicking things off with the Bimbo Ademoye (Sugar Rush, Love is Yellow) and Uzor Arukwe (Sugar Rush, Unbroken) movie, A Thousand Ways To Break A Cheating Man. A woman who has been hurt by love in the past takes her revenge on a player to teach him a lesson but the unexpected happens. Unarguably Nigeria’s biggest reality show, Big Brother Naija has amassed millions of followers in Nigeria and beyond through the years. In 2020, the Lockdown season broke the Showmax live-streaming record, becoming the most-watched live entertainment content ever on the streaming service. Asides the live stream, fans tuned in to watch other BBNaija Showmax exclusive highlights like Extra View, Daily Highlights and more. Come February, BBNaija Lockdown winner Laycon is set to star in the first-ever Showmax Nigeria original, I Am LAYCON. A lady who gets dumped after catching her boyfriend cheating goes on the ultimate revenge spree. The movie stars Nollywood veteran Zack Orji (3 Wise Men, Half of a Yellow Sun), Kalu Ikeagwu (Living in Bondage, Unmarried) and Shaffy Bello (The Men’s Club, Chief Daddy). Set in Benin City, Enakhe tells the story of a rebellious daughter who, after the sudden death of her father, is forced by circumstances to grow and become the leader of her extended family and the family’s criminal empire. The hit telenovela stars Alex Usifo (Battle of Musanga, A Soldier’s Story), AMVCA winner Ivie Okujaye (Slow Country, Hotel Majestic), Lancelot Oduwa Imaseun (Games Men Play, Invasion 1897) and Lota Chukwu (Ajoche). New episodes of Enakhe are available to watch on Showmax every weekday. Would this roundup be complete if there was no mention of the hit show Halita? The show tells the story of 19-year-old Halita, a village girl forced to move to the city and work as a maid in the powerful Zamani household. Her time with the Zamanis is highly eventful as she navigates her way between her fellow domestic staff and the Zamani family to earn her place in the residence. The show finale aired in September 2020, with fans taking to social media to say their goodbyes. All episodes of Halita are currently available for binging on Showmax. AMVCA 2020 Best Actor winner Timini Egbuson teams up with Bimbo Ademoye in this hit movie. Oladayo is a tech entrepreneur based in Lagos, who finds himself at the mercy of his sabotaging bosses while in pursuit of his dreams. The movie also stars Mofe Duncan (Halita, Sons of the Caliphate).  Big Brother Naija Pepper Dem winner, Mercy Eke, and her beau, Ike Onyema, kept us entertained with their antics in the house so it’s only fitting that the feisty couple now have their very own reality show. Mercy & Ike follows the lives of the reality TV couple as they deal with the pressures of life outside the BBNaija house. The show remains a hot favourite for fans and even birthed the now popular phrase “relass and be taken kiaruf”.  One of Nigeria’s longest-running comedy shows, My Flatmates follows a group of friends who share an apartment as they navigate their way through their chaotic lives. Produced by comedian Bright Okpocha aka Basketmouth and Kayode Peters, My Flatmates continued to remain very popular amongst Nigerians in 2020. Riona tells the story of a village under siege and a king who does everything he can to stop a dark prophecy from coming to pass. The hit telenovela stars Big Brother Naija season 1 housemate Frank Kowea as King Ofotonku. Also starring are Michelle Dede from Unbroken, Elvina Ibru (Bling Lagosians), Mimi Chaka (Tumini in The Men’s Club) and Big Brother Naija Season 4 housemate, Jeff Nweke. One of Nigeria’s most loved family comedies, The Johnsons remained a hit with fans in 2020. The Johnsons follows the lives of an average Nigerian family and the challenges they face.The star-studded cast includes Osita Iheme (Lara and the Beat, Aki na Ukwa), Ada Ameh (Oloture, Phone Swap), Charles Inojie (The Royal Hibiscus Hotel, The In-laws) and Olumide Oworu (Shuga, A Soldier’s Story).