 Courtesy of our partners at Betpay, we are serving you betting tips ahead of the new set of games in the Italian Serie A. Though AC Milan are still holding the ace with a two-point cushion at the top of the log, the weekend games are tricky and there may be some changes at the conclusion of the weekend games. Here some betting tips and predictions for some of the top games in Italy this weekend Juventus Vs Roma Undoubtedly, the game in Turin is this week’’s star match and fireworks are expected as Juventus host Roma on Saturday. Both sides are in fine form – they sit in the top three going by the Last Six form table and this should provide for an entertaining and intriguing affair. Since the poor show at Inter Milan a few weeks ago, Juve have been firing on all cylinders with five wins in a row in all competitions which also yielded them the Italian Super Cup. But Paulo Fonseca’s Roma have also won their last two Serie A games and currently sit a point ahead of Juventus, albeit with a game more being played. This scenario pretends a mouthwatering tie this weekend with the clear odds for Juventus to win pegged at 1.80 on Betpay while Roma picking an unlikely win over their hosts commands a huge 4.25 odds on Betpay. For the choice of the game ending in a stalemate, Betpay is offering another massive 4.35 odds.  Recent head to head Both sides played out a thrilling 2-2 draw in the Italian capital in September with braces from Jordan Veretout and Cristiano Ronaldo, although Juve had to play the last half an hour with ten men after Adrien Rabiot was sent off. And last season, Roma inflicted a rare defeat on Juve in Turin after a 3-1 victory. One thing these two teams boast of is a potent forward line and that makes the options for Over 2.5 goals and both teams to score quite plausible. For Over 2.5 goals, Betpay offers 1.60 odds while the option for both teams to score is at 1.55 odds There are other interesting options including Juventus scoring in both halves at 2.40 odds. Prediction Juventus 2-1 Roma Genoa vs Napoli Genoa these last few weeks have improved greatly; winning three of their last five League games. Having scared Juventus in the Coppa, Genoa are now in the mood for a possible revenge against Gennaro Gattuso’s side. Napoli thrashed Genoa 6-0 at the San Paolo earlier in the season, but many things have changed from that Genoa side who were then under very different management, with half the squad suffering from Covid.  Right now Genoa appears more than capable of giving Gattuso and his Napoli team all sort of nightmares this weekend. Genoa are definitely high on confidence having thrashed Crotone impressively last weekend, a result which must have given them the belief they can get past any team once they put their mind to it. Though there is 4.65 odds for Genoa to outrightly win is very tempting, settling for the 1×2 for home win or draw is less risky and good at 1.80 odds. Napoli have not done so badly in their away games; winning 6 out of 9 on their travels this season, which is good form to bring here, but they struggled in defeat at Verona, a team who are organised in a very similar way to Genoa. I think that they may struggle here as well. Genoa vs Napoli Head-to-head Going by past records, Napoli have been the dominant force in this match-up. They won 20, drew 15, and lost only 8 of 48 matches against Grifone. We have a feeling that Genoa have what it takes to get a sort of revenge against tired Napoli here. The hosts kept four straight clean sheets. They will sit back and wait for the opportunity to strike from the counters here. The Under 2.5 goals FT pick thus looks sweet at the 2.00 odds on Betpay. We will also back Genoa not to lose at the 2.20 odds. Prediction Genoa 1-0 Napoli AC Milan Vs Crotone Milan returned to form in a big way last weekend, blasting an astonishing 10 shots on target in their 2-1 win away to Bologna. Now, coming home for a meeting with bottom-of-the-table Crotone is unlikely to cause the table-toppers too many problems.  The league leaders have averaged 2.26 at home, and their visitors have just two points from 10 games on the road, so this ought to be an easy one for Milan. Staking for AC Milan to win outrightly is just at 1.20 odds but tipping the San Siro giants to win the first has a better offer of 1.60 odds. Over 2.5 goals is at 1.50 odds for this game Prediction AC Milan 3-1 Crotone Post Views: 
				43