 Paul Onuachu and Terem Moffi on target as Jonathan Afolabi suffered racist abuse in Scotland following Saturday’s 3-2 Scottish Cup win over Lowland League side Bonnyrigg Rose. Onuachu has continued to get among the goals after he fired his 19th goal of the season in  KRC Genk 2-1 loss to at KV Kortrijk in a weekend. Former Midtjylland striker was unhappy despite finding back of the net as Genk four-point adrift league leaders Club Brugge. David Okereke was a second-half substitute appearance in Club Brugge 2-1 away win over St.Truiden after the Nigeria U23 striker replaces Bas Dost in the 46th minutes of the encounter at Staaien on Sunday. Germany Taiwo Awoniyi has been in form recently could find the back of the net for Union Berlin during the 2-2 scored draw with Wolfsburg at Alte Foersterei. The Liverpool who is currently on loan with Urs Fischer’s side has scored five goals this season with three of the strikes coming in his last three matches. Toluwalase Arokodare could not save FC Colonge from 5-0 heavy defeat from Freiburg in the week 15 of the Bundesliga. England  Odion Ighalo was an unused substitute as Manchester United edged out Watford from Emirate FA Cup with Scott Mctominay’s header inside five minutes was enough for the Red Devils to seal their spot in the next round. William Troost Ekong has expressed his happiness after reuniting with former international teammate Ighalo but the former Udinese defender was in action for the 76th minute. However, Isaac Success and Tom Dele-Bashiru were not listed in the encounter with both stars still recuperating from different injuries. Ajayi was also on the score sheet for West Brom as the Baggies were dumped out of the FA Cup by Blackpool. Jerry Yates put Blackpool ahead in the 40th minutes before Super Eagles defender level it up for the visiting team seven minutes after the restart. Gary Madine put Blackpool upfront again 66th minutes but Matheus Pereira’s equalise from the spot ten minutes from time ensured the match went into extra time. Following 30 minutes of extra-time, the game went into penalties, and it was Blackpool that came out on top.  Former Super Eagles skipper John Mikel Obi came up against Wilfred Ndidi as Leicester City beat Stoke City 4-0 at Bet 365 Stadium to progress to the next round. Goals from James Justin, Marc Albrighton, Ayoze Perez and Harvey Barnes secured an emphatic win for former Premier League champions. Both Ndidi and Mikel were on the pitch for the entire duration while Kelechi Iheanacho came on for Harvey Barnes in the 82nd minute. Ola Aina was also in action as Fulham moved into the fourth round following a 2-0 win over QPR at the Kiyan Prince Foundation Stadium. Aina was on from start to finish as extra-time goals from Bobby Reid and Neeskens Kebano broke the resistance of QPR, while Nigerian descent Tosin Adarabioyo was an unused substitute and Ademola Loookman not listed in the matchday squad. Bright Osayi-Samuel started in the left wing-back role for Mark Warburton’s side before he was replaced by Niko Hamalainen. Holland Tyronne Ebuehi made his 15th league appearance of the season as FC Twente secured a brilliant win away from home at FC Emmen. Ebuehi played for 89 minutes and was solid at both ends of the pitch. Goals from Václav Černý, Queensy Menig, and Jesse Bosch gave Twente a three-goal lead in the first half. Miguel Araujo pulled one back for Emmen in the 59th minute, but Černý’s second of the game in the 63rd minute sealed a comprehensive win for Twente. Scotland  Ireland-born Nigerian striker Jonathan Afolabi received ‘vile’ online racist abuse following Saturday’s 3-2 Scottish Cup win over Lowland League side Bonnyrigg Rose. The 20-year-old star currently on-loan to Dundee FC from Celtic has played for the Republic of Ireland right up to Under-21 level. Super Eagles duo Leon Balogun and Joe Aribo were in action as Rangers went 22 points clear of Celtic, at the top of the Scottish Premiership after Alfredo Morelos’ double sealed a 2-1 win at 10-man Aberdeen. Rangers made it 15 league wins in a row as they bid to win a first top-flight title since 2011 and deny Celtic 10 championships in a row. France  Moffi scored again as FC Lorient suffered defeat in the second consecutive game against Girondin Bordeaux in the Ligue 1. Oudin opened the scoring for Bordeaux in the 13th minute but Moffi continues his impressive form in the game as level in the 27th minute. Oudin completed his brace in the 43rd minute and condemned Lorient to a 2-1 defeat with Samuel Kalu was in action for 61 minutes before he was replaced by Adil, while compatriot Josh Maja played for four minutes. Spain  Villarreal defeated Celta Vigo 4-0 on Friday, with the whole goals scored in the opening 31st minutes of the clash at the Balaidos Stadium. Villarreal scored the opening goal in the fifth minute via Moreno, Moi Gomez, Dani Parejo and Fer Nino Fer. Samuel Chukwueze was used as a substitute in the 66th minute when he replaced Etienne Capoue. Ramon Azeez watches the encounter from the bench as Lionel Messi and Antoine Griezmann scored a brace each in the 4-0 victory over Granada at Estadio Nuevo Los Carmenes. Barcelona is now third on the La Liga standings with just four points behind Atletico Madrid who has three games in hand. James Igbekeme made second appearances by replacing Sergio Bermejo in the 90 minutes with Real Zaragoza beat 2-0 Logrones in the Spanish Segunda Division. Portugal Zaidu Sanusi has established himself at the Portuguese champions, FC Porto, as they come within striking distance of leaders Sporting Lisbon with a 4-1 win at Famalicao. The Super Eagles left-back played the entire duration and it was his 11th appearance in the league and he has also scored a goal. Turkey  Valentine Ozornwafor finally made his competitive debut for Turkish Super Lig giants Galatasaray in a 6-0 win Genclerbirligi at Ali Sami Yen Spor Kompleksi Turk Telekom Stadyumu on Saturday Former Nigeria U20 international wearing the number 49 at the back of his jersey as the ex-Enyimba defender was brought on in the 82nd minute as a replacement for Ryan Donk. The 21-year-old was not eligible to be fielded in the first half of the season but was issued a license before the game against Genclerbirligi. He spent the entirety of last season on loan at Spanish side Almeria, where he struggled for game time, playing just five games in all competitions over the course of 2019-2020. Goals from Mbaye Diagne, Younès Belhanda (3), Ogulcan Caglayan and Ryan Babel earned Gala their tenth league win of the season. Stoke City loanee Oghenekaro Etebo was not in the matchday squad and Jesse Sekidika was on show for the last fourteen minutes. Brown Ideye was on the losing side as Goztepe 0-1 to Antalyaspor in the Turkish Super Lig encounter Gursel Aksel Stadium. Olarenwaju Kayode featured for Sivasspor’s 2-1 win over Gaziantep FK on Saturday as the 27-year-old who is on loan from Shakhtar Donetsk. However, former Manchester City star has scored in every competition he has played in for Sivasspor. Post Views: 
				168