 Juventus vs FC Porto: Juventus will be out against FC Porto to get to the next round of the Champions League despite a 2-1 defeat away to the Portuguese team in their previous meeting. Juventus suffered a defeat in the first leg and the Old Ladyaim to book a place in the quarterfinals of the Champions League. Juventus has all it takes to qualify but has to be very clinical when they come up against Porto on Tuesday evening. BetPay favour Juventus to win this clash with the home team offered an odd of 1.50 while FC Porto has 6.70 to win this clash in Turin. Prediction: Juventus 3-1 Porto, this match is expected to witness over 2.5 goals with BetPay offering 1.70. BetPay offer odds of 13 for 3-1 correct scoreline, with Cristiano Ronaldo in the mix Juventus, can go all the way out to make this happen. Borussia Dortmund vs Sevilla: Sevilla is in a difficult position to make it to the net round of the Champions League following a 3-2 defeat at home against Borussia Dortmund in the first leg. The German team will be looking to seal their qualification to the next round of the Champions League when they entertain the Europa Cup holders in the second round on Tuesday evening. No doubt Borussia Dortmund is in a better position to reach the quarter-finals of the Champions League. Both teams suffered defeats in their previous league games this weekend, Dortmund was floored by club world Cup Champions Bayern Munich while Sevilla was humbled by relegation struggler Elche. Betpay slap an odd of 2.20 on Dortmund to win this clash while Sevilla is 3.05 to clinch the victory against the red hot German team. Prediction: Borussia Dortmund 2-1 Sevilla, Both teams could find the back of the net but the Bundesliga team is expected to win this clash. BetPay offer 10.05 for the tie to end in 2-1, which is a considerable scoreline for this match. Liverpool vs RB Leipzig RB Leipzig will look to overturn a 2-0 deficit as they take on Liverpool in the second leg of their UEFA Champions League Round of 16 tie. The Reds come into the match boasting a 2-0 lead from the first leg, which was also held on neutral territory at the same venue and will hope to put their domestic difficulties to one side and book a quarter-final spot for the third time in four seasons. The Reds have lost six matches at Anfield, it may prove a blessing in disguise that this encounter has been moved once again to the Puskás Arena in Budapest due to Covid-19 isolation guidelines. Predictions: Betpay offers 1.40 odds for Liverpool straight win but the encounter may likely come with both side to score each other on this outcome with 1.50 odds. PSG vs Barcelona PSG will be looking to avoid another Champions League nightmare against Barcelona with the French side all-but in the quarter-finals of the competition. The La Liga outfit came back from a 4-0 first-leg defeat against PSG in 2017 to beat the Parisians 6-1 in the second leg to progress into the Champions League quarter-finals. Barcelona showed they are still capable of a comeback after they came back from a 2-0 aggregate deficit to Sevilla during the week with a 3-0 win on the night at the Nou Camp which saw Ronald Koeman’s side advance into the Copa del Rey final. Both sides kept clean sheets on the weekend, PSG winning 3-0 against Brest in the French Cup and Barcelona beating Osasuna 2-0 in La Liga to maintain their place in the second spot. Prediction: Betpay offer 2.30 for PSG win on the platform but another outcome for this match in Paris with both sides to find back of the net and over 2.5 with odds goes for 1.55 Post Views: 
				55