 Nigerian forward Ayo Akinola has accepted Canada national invitation for a training camp in January 2021. The 20-year-old Toronto FC striker, who was born in Detroit but moved to Canada when he was one, is eligible to play for Canada, the U.S. and three-times Africa Champions Nigeria. Akinola scored nine goals in fifteen appearances in Major League Soccer earned him another call up to the Canadian national team set up as part of a preparatory camp ahead of FIFA World Cup Qualifiers, which are scheduled to begin in March 2021. Canada coach John Herdman said via the country Broadcasting Corporation official website. “He’s got big decisions to make. We’re very respectful of that,” said Canada coach John Herdman. “The one thing he has wanted is that opportunity to experience Canada. There are some big pros and cons for the decision both ways, whether it’s the U.S. or Canada. “We’ve had a lot of conversations over the last seven, eight months and he’s kept his word to come in with us. “We’ll just be ourselves and show him what Canada has to offer.” he added. Akinola scored on his senior debut for the United States in a 6-0 rout of El Salvador this month but is not cap-tied to his country of birth as it was a friendly. Full Roster for January in Florida Goalkeepers: Maxime Crepeau, Vancouver Whitecaps (MLS); James Pantemis, Montreal Impact (MLS); Dayne St. Clair, Minnesota United FC (MLS). Defenders: Derek Cornelius, Vancouver Whitecaps (MLS); Belal Halbouni, SV Werder Bremen II (Germany); Kamal Miller, Montreal Impact (MLS); Frank Sturing, FC Den Bosch (the Netherlands); Joel Waterman, Montreal Impact (MLS); Samuel Adekugbe, Valerenga Fotball (Norway); Zorhan Bassong, Montreal Impact (MLS); Zachary Brault-Guillard, Montreal Impact (MLS); Tajon Buchanan, New England Revolution (MLS); Cristian Gutierrez, Vancouver Whitecaps (MLS); Alistair Johnston, Nashville SC (MLS); Richie Laryea, Toronto FC (MLS). Midfielders: Tesho Akindele, Orlando City SC (MLS); Marco Bustos, Pacific FC (CPL); Liam Fraser, Toronto FC (MLS); Mark-Anthony Kaye, Los Angeles FC (MLS); Noble Okello, Toronto FC (MLS): Jonathan Osorio, Toronto FC (MLS); Samuel Piette, Montreal Impact (MLS); Ralph Priso, Toronto FC (MLS). Forwards: Ayo Akinola, Toronto FC (MLS); Lucas Cavallini, Vancouver Whitecaps (MLS); Marcelo Flores, Arsenal (England); Jayden Nelson, Toronto FC (MLS); Theo Corbeanu, Wolverhampton Wanderers (England).