 The richest Blackman in the world, Aliko Dangote, is currently embroiled in drama between two black American ladies on social media. Just recently, Lewis accused the Nigerian businessman of breaking her heart in a million pieces following an alleged entanglement between the both of them. Now, a new chick going by the Instagram handle All Rounda, has shared images of Dangote’s bum claiming he was never entangled with Bea Lewis. She wrote, “I’m here to clean his name. What she did was disgusting and uncalled for. To give a paragraph with such descriptive detail us classless of you. Act like you’re use to things and most importantly value yourself more babe. Never let money do clown shit like that.” Twitter is currently in a frenzy as Nigerians are sharing what they think of Dangote and the two ladies. See reactions below: I’m hearing Dangote has a girlfriend manager??? like an assistant dedicated to managing his girlfriends ?? — NOT THE FATHER (@HelloSemiloore) January 1, 2021 Still waiting for Arewa Twitter to call Dangote a whore, harass him for lack of modesty and not covering himself, accuse him of violating his family’s honor, barrage his social media with death threats, and demand he publicly apologize for eating a haram and cheese sandwich. — Uju Anya (@UjuAnya) January 2, 2021 Dangote's choice in women is as bad as his spaghetti — ?? (@DanielOTD_) January 1, 2021 By the way, if it was a man that posted a girl’s bumbum on the internet without her consent and permission, we would have called it revenge porn. But now that it is Dangote, a man, we are somehow okay with it. Alright. — #OurFavOnlineDoc ?????? (@DrOlufunmilayo) January 2, 2021 Burnaboy was wrong, Dangote no dey find money again o, Baba don lose focus, Na woman now. — Victor Babatunde (@vhic_tore) January 2, 2021 Even dangote bum bum first me blow ???? pic.twitter.com/KVY1SpATqa — King Ace Skinny (@Mosace1) January 2, 2021 Another Black American woman just posted Dangote bumbum on IG. This is the world’s richest black man.This is not cool at all. Can these ladies just respect Baba at least? How can you post the world’s richest black bumbum on Instagram? Omo cement and spaghetti go soon cost. — #OurFavOnlineDoc ?????? (@DrOlufunmilayo) January 1, 2021 Arewa Twitter will pretend as if they didn't see the Dangote saga. But the veins of their d!cks will be engorged if it were a woman revealing her back. Idiots. — Lamide.Black® (@lamide_black) January 2, 2021 Dangote when he sees his next babe trying to record him pic.twitter.com/Oe9ofIfZo8 — Jollof Daddy of the streets ? (@partyjollof_) January 2, 2021 Jokes aside. It takes a high level of trust for a man like Dangote to bare himself so freely around a woman, and in return, she betrayed his trust by sharing his nakedness online. That’s not fair, and totally unnecessary. We can do better. — Major Gen. OLUCHI?? (@General_Oluchi) January 2, 2021 Dangote’s Sister wives arguing who is using the private jet today pic.twitter.com/L0gtLloWoq — Aros (@Damii_aros) January 1, 2021 This Dangote x Sugar Baby x Symba chat has highlighted how worth it is to discuss kinks / fantasies / fetishes with partners. Honesty from both parties is so important. Don’t just assume your partner isn’t open to certain things. Kink shaming and judgement doesn’t help too… — TONI TONE (@t0nit0ne) January 2, 2021 Dangote owns a sugar company and you’re surprised he’s a sugar daddy lmao — M A R I O ? (@lumedey_) January 1, 2021