 Facundo Pellestri has been denied the chance to make his Manchester United debut after testing positive for coronavirus. The Uruguayan was signed on deadline day in the last transfer window after a £8m fee was agreed with Penarol. At the age of 18, the now-19-year-old has been touted as one for the future. The teenager has been playing for United’s Under-23s this campaign, making six appearances, scoring twice and setting up one. But he was in line to make his first-team debut on Saturday night when the Red Devils take on Watford in the FA Cup. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is keen on rotating his squad, with the likes of Harry Maguire, Bruno Fernandes and Aaron Wan-Bissaka all utilised heavily in recent weeks. Manchester United star Paul Pogba has insisted the side will improve after their Carabao Cup semi-final defeat to Manchester City Pellestri was one of those who would have been likely to gain minutes but instead will now self-isolate for 10 days after testing positive for coronavirus. He is not showing symptoms, though, but will remain at home for the next duration of time. The youngster had been training with the first-team this week with Solskjaer looking to give him his debut. Pellestri was signed with the future in mind, along with fellow winger Amad Diallo – who officially joined this month. The 18-year-old was signed from Atalanta in the last transfer window but could only sign this January. The Serie A outfit wanted to keep the Ivorian until the end of the season but Solskjaer was desperate to get him at Old Trafford as soon as possible. Meanwhile, Pellestri has talked up the blossoming relationship he is building with his compatriot Edinson Cavani, who signed for United on the same day. He told MUTV: “It’s been amazing to train with guys like Rashford, Pogba, Mata and Edi [Cavani], who is very close friends with me. It’s amazing for me because I watched them on TV and now I am practising with them. “The intensity, the high quality they have, it’s great for me to play with them and I improve a lot. Post Views: 
				78