 Ini Dima Okojie Nollywood actress, Ini Dima-Okojie, has revealed that she was diagnosed with fibroid in 2017. The diva shared her story with her fans on her Instagram account. She allayed the fears of her friends and fans as she noted that she is currently recovering from surgery. In a video that chronicled her battle with the ailment, she took to the caption section to state, “My journey with fibroid. Hey Guys, I know it’s been a minute! I want to share something quite personal with you but I think it’s important because this is something that apparently affects about 6-8 in every 10 black women but no one talks about it.” In the post, she noted that she was scared when the doctors told her she had fibroid. “I found out I had fibroids in 2017, I remember freaking out so much. The first gynaecologist I saw said if it wasn’t really bordering me he would advise I leave it alone but that I had better go and quickly get married. She continued, “Anyways, fast forward to March 2020, the bulge on my lower belly had gotten bigger and my new gynaecologist advised I take out the fibroids.” Ini Dima-Okojie said that at the point she was meant to have the surgery, the COVID-19 pandemic had become a serious issue worldwide so her operation was delayed. “Then Covid happened and we had to put the surgery on hold. In the meantime, I tried other things like herbs, clean diet, exercise. “Now fast forward to November, the bulge in my tummy had now increased significantly so I decided to go do another pelvic scan and was told I had to get an MRI because the fibroids were now bigger than what the ultrasound machine could adequately measure. Bottom line I had to have the surgery as soon as possible. I had the surgery, it was successful and I’m now healing slowly but surely. I just want to thank God Almighty for showing up and showing out for me!” She seized the opportunity to thank everyone that stood by her during her plight, and also shared a word of encouragement with women who are still battling fibroid.