 Heart-shaped balloons in the air, roses everywhere… it seems like Valentine’s day is near and many of us are thinking of the sweetest way to appreciate our special ones. As luck will have it, Pinkberry, one of most’s favorite gourmet frozen yogurt stores is rolling out the loveliest products and offers guaranteed to make our hearts swirl. Make this Valentine’s day one to remember with Pinkberry’s new Strawberry flavor!! Show love, feel loved, and spread the love this February with the new and exciting flavor. The delicious, rich, and refreshing flavor is truly the perfect valentines treat for family and friends to enjoy. Relish more sweet sensations as Pinkberry serves up love in a cup with their amazing valentine promos. Your heart is set to swirl with Pinkberry’s Love Swirl offer! From Monday through to Thursday, you and your special someone can treat each other to a cup of Pinkberry original flavor with toppings for just N700 only! Its true love in a cup this Valentine with Pinkberry Anniversary Offer, celebrate the season with a yummy medium cup of strawberry or original flavor covered with the most delicious toppings for just N1500. Want more? Then set a date this month with your fave and enjoy the awesome Love Duo Treat made with love just for the two of you. Sink your teeth into 2 Large yummy cups of the delicious strawberry or refreshing original flavor. If you want to enjoy the company of your loved ones? Then make it a Pinkberry Love Feast and share a sweet bond over 1 midi take-home cup, 2 medium cups of any flavor of your choice! Amazing! Whichever way you decide to spend this season of love with the perfect one for you, make sure to include Pinkberry’s Parfait Love offer! You can satisfy your cravings with this healthy and nutritious treat that comes with free delicious toppings! Indeed, Cupid must have shot his arrow right into Pinkberry’s hearts as these deals are mind-blowing and one you should not miss. So hurry to the nearest Pinkberry outlet and let love land on your taste buds with every scoop of delicious frozen yogurt. Make sure you stay on top of your frozen yogurt game by following Pinkberry on Instagram @pinkberrynigeria for even more fantastic deals, promos, and giveaways! ——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————Sponsored Content.