 Clubhouse App You might’ve heard of Clubhouse by now. It’s unlikely you’ve joined Clubhouse, if you haven’t, we are glad to inform you Clubhouse is a new invite-only voice-based social media app. The new social media platform has built its reputation, in part, on exclusivity. You have to secure an invite to get in which creates curiosity among the ‘un-invited’, making it a continuous topic of discuss. Also, celebrities  like Oprah Winfrey, Ashton Kutcher, Drake, Jared Leto and Chris Rock have either spearheaded conversations or just listened to others. Nigerians have jump on the buzz, twitter folks talking about the app, wanting to be invited to feel among and some having interesting discussions. Dangote’s alleged mistress Bea Lewis also jumped on Club House to discuss her story with Aliko Dangote. Get to know what the meet up app is all about What is Clubhouse? Clubhouse is an audio-based social media platform where users can participate in different chat rooms on a wide range of topics. Basically, you can jump in and out of different chats, on different subjects, you can simply listen or choose to share your opinion as well. Clubhouse sounds a little like the video chat app Houseparty which lets users spontaneously join group chats. However, it may be different in that you don’t necessarily need to have a prior connection with the person you’re trying to jump into a room with. The app became a sensation during the lockdown earlier brought about by the coronavirus pandemic and has since become a household name among several people since then. Who Created The App ? Paul Davison and Rohan Seth found the app April last year. By May, it was valued at around $100 million despite have just 1,500 users at the time, according to CNBC. For now the app is open to only IPhone users, and they plan to launch on other operating system like android. How do you get an invite to Clubhouse? You cannot join Clubhouse without an invite. If you’re an iPhone user, though, you can download the app and reserve a username. Each new member is allocated one invite, and after awhile you get three more so if you get invited by an existing member, you can eventually pick up to 4 of your friends to join with you. The app apparently plans to expand to the general public soon. It says it hasn’t done that yet for two reasons: It wants to build community slowly and it wants to prepare features that will help it handle larger numbers of people.