 Manchester United have had a good spell on the road in the Premier League but have struggled at home and this weekend, they come up aganinst a high-scoring Leeds side at Old Trafford and our partners Betpay brings you the preview and betting tips. This will be the first top-flight ‘Roses Derby’ since February 2004, with a 1-1 draw then taking the all-time league record (all tiers) to W37, D32, L23 in Manchester United’s favour. They have never lost a home league match to Leeds in the Premier League (PL) era (1992-present), but with seven of the last ten PL H2Hs goalless at HT, this one could keep everyone guessing. Much more effective on their travels, a scrappy 1-0 win against West Bromwich Albion is Man United’s only home league win this season (D2, L3). Goals have been scarce without fans present, with United scoring just 0.5 goals on average per home match. In terms of total goals, there’s been just 2.17 on offer per United home match, compared to 4.67 on the road. Leeds United’s last fixture saw them score 5+ goals in a PL match for the first time since April 2003, with the emphatic victory over Newcastle representing only a second win across their last seven league matches. It was the fifth time across those seven that both teams scored, and four of them saw over 3.5 total goals. On the road, Leeds are yet to draw in the league this season (W3, L3). All three wins have been well-orchestrated victories ‘to nil’, while the three defeats have all featured both teams scoring – and a wild average of 5.33 total goals per match – with Leeds conceding seven first-half goals. Odds Betpay is offering odds of 1.80 for a Manchester United win and 4.35 for a Leeds United win. A draw is priced at 4.65. Betting Tips Leeds are a high-scoring side while Manchester United are mostly inconsistent and our tipsters have called this one for a draw and have also predicted for both sides to score and for over 1.5 goals to recorded in the match. Betpay offers odds of 1.45 for both teams to score and 1.11 for over 1.5 goals. Prediction Manchester United 3-3 Leeds