 itel has gifts for you and yours in this six-week-long campaign. But, how do you get to enjoy these gifts? For the gifts and the memories they will make, you willwant to participate in the itel Red Valentine campaign.And it all starts from your visit to itel branded phone stores to buy an itel S16, A36, P36 or A56 series smartphone between January 18 and February 28, 2021. The purchase not only secures participation for you; it also provides a fair chance at making Valentine 2021 memorable for you and your lover. Tickets to a dinner with Olamide, itel TV, wine bottles, chocolate gift boxes,are among the gifts you’d get to win. At the stores in Lagos, Kano, Ibadan and Port Harcourt, your favourite celebrity will be waiting to receive, chat and have selfies with you.  It is interesting how purchasing the smartphone(s) sets you up for exciting gifts, including itel TVs, chocolate/gift boxes, TWS earbuds and other accessories. Before you dash to the store, trust you want to know about the grand prize – tickets to hang out with Olamide. Amazing, right? For these great gifts from itel this Valentine season, make sure to take pictures with your newly purchased smartphones or the celebrity and share with the hashtags #itelRedValentine and #DinnerWithOlamide on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. You can also tag @itelNigeria to make your participation valid. That’s not all. You can also get on the fun train by joining: If you were unable to get to the itel branded phone store, this is for you. To participate (and win), all you have to do is share the story of how you met the one you love. However, you want to tell the story, ensure you spice your narration with attention-grabbing details. Doing this gives you an edge when winners are selected. Seven participants will be rewarded with dinner tickets for 2 to wine and dine with Olamide and itel on Valentine’s Day. Make sure to use the dedicated hashtags, #HowIMetBae and #itelRedValentine in submitting your stories on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Keep these in mind, beautiful people.  Now that you have fulfilled all righteousness, what else? Let me help. At this point, sit back, relax and wait for the big announcement. itel will be making a weekly announcement of winners while the campaign lasts. itel Red Valentine promo runs from January 18 to February 28, 2021. And you are assured of one thing: getting to savour the stuff that will make this love season memorable. For more information about the itel Red Valentine campaign, check social media posters on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram via @iteleNigeria.