The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has come under attack on social media for promising millions of naira to Grammy award-winning artiste, Burna Boy, and others who performed at a homecoming party for the music star, despite owing teachers 5 years Salary. Speaking during Burna Boy’s visit, Mr Wike said when the music star was announced as the winner of the Best Global Music Album category at the 2021 Grammy Award, for his ‘Twice As Tall’ album, the entire state was elated. A homecoming party, however, took place at Port Harcourt, the state capital, where the governor announced that all musicians who performed at the event would go home with N10 million gift each. The speech of the governor had gone viral on social media, particularly Twitter. “Those of you who have come to play, whatever you have agreed with the ministry of culture and tourism is not my business. “All of you that have come today and the Niger Delta people that have come to play today to show the talent you have, I’m very proud of you. All of you will go home with N10 million each,” Mr Wike said amidst cheers from the audience. The governor’s donation comes a week after public school teachers protested over five years non-payment of salaries by the Rivers government. The protesting teachers told journalists that they have lost about ten of their colleagues due to the hardship experienced within the period. Many Nigerians have, however, attacked Mr Wike for what they tagged reckless spending on Saturday. The governor trended on Twitter on Sunday morning. See reactions below; Lol Wike is owing workers five years salaries, but he's out here giving gifts to the Sokoto State Government and BurnaBoy, because it's Emperor Wike no outrage. Democracy is not in danger because it's not coming from a certain quarter pic.twitter.com/S5ID2zFcVY — Commander in Chief, Oduduwa Republic?? (@Joshibirogba) March 28, 2021 When they say Nigerians deserve the leaders it gets, this is part of why they say that. Gov Wike is so confident and unashamed to be paying artistes from government funds and people are hailing him but turn round and also criticize corruption in the same breath? ? https://t.co/9s7D29kmxr — ?? DaddyMØ???? (@therealdaddymo1) March 28, 2021 Is this him wasting taxpayer money and getting cheered, or is this going to be from his personal account? Wike gets away with nearly everything all other governors get angrily criticized for. I wonder why it’s like that?? https://t.co/hVV2iH8K55 — Man of Letters. (@Letter_to_Jack) March 28, 2021 It’s nice that Wike is giving out 10mil to artistes but my mother who worked for the state government for 35yrs retired with gratuity of app 9mil and has been told that the government can’t afford to pay them yet. But it’s okay he is giving 10mil to artistes. — IjawRoyalty (@ijawroyalty) March 28, 2021 Lmao Burna boy will come on Twitter to drag politicians, he’ll call them looters and all but see the hypocrite hailing Wike after receiving N10M. Teachers are being owed 5 years salary in the same Rivers State o. pic.twitter.com/xgp7BHfIAI — OTUNBA (@ManLikeIcey) March 28, 2021 Burna Boy and the rest of the artistes will collect N10M each from Wike and celebrate it here. Next day they will tweet about lack of infrastructure and focus on Lagos State. Have they ever ask Wike about End SARS Judicial Panel of Inquiry? — ADEMOLA (@RajiDraj) March 28, 2021