 Nigerian Award-Winning Musician and Actor, Folarin ‘Falz’ Falana makes his introduction into South Africa with a remix of his hit single ‘Squander’ featuring South Africa’s Amapiano sensations, Kamo Mphela, Mpura and SayFar alongside Nigerian Afro House Queen, Niniola. Folarin ‘Falz’ Falana has established himself as one of Nigeria’s top entertainers through his incredible work as a singer, rapper and actor accompanied with his four award- winning solo albums. He is well decorated with various awards and accolades, some of which include BET Award (2016 Best New International Act), Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards (2016 Best Actor in a Comedy) , The Headies (2019 Best Rap Single), Headies 2019 (Album of the Year), The Headies 2021 (Best Rap Single). Speaking on the remix, Falz described how elated he was to work with South African artists. “I love South Africa, I love the Culture and the food. I am really excited about this remix with Kamo Mphela, Mpura & SayFar because it’s a great blend of South African & Nigerian music. Like the first song with Niniola, this is sure to keep you on your feet. Kamo Mphela & Mpura were the best people to complement the song giving it that full amapiano sound because of their distinct voices.” As for Amapiano hitmaker, Kamo Mphela, her rise to the top in South Africa has been unmissable and is sure to add her infectious energy to Squander. Her passion for dance motivated her choreographed moves, shaking the industry and trailblazing her career, coupled with her timeless collaborations with the likes of Busiswa & DJ Maphorisa. Her credentials for hit songs are evident having contributed to several smash hits over the last two years, including “Sandton” and “Amanikiniki” Amapiano breakout vocalist Mpura aka Mpura Mpura wa Di bedtime story, has had an incredible breakout year featuring on #1 hit after #1 hit, from club anthem ‘VSOP’ with Mr JazziQ & Riky Rick, to ‘uLazi’ to currently, the biggest song in South Africa, ‘Umsebenzi Wethu’, which has topped multiple streaming charts for months on end. Produced by Nigerian hitmaker Willis & South African rising star dance artist & producer, SayFar, ‘Squander remix’ is an infectious song that would keep you dancing. Stream & Download Squander Remix On All Digital Platforms