 Rapper T.I And Wife Accused Of Drugging And Sex Trafficking Young Women American rapper T.I and his wife Tiny Harris are being accused of drugging and sex trafficking women. Over 15 women have jointly accused the celebrity couple of forcing them into comprising sexual situations involving drugs and money. It was the couple’s estranged friend Sabrina Peterson that blew the whistle making some serious allegations and has now compiled a series of messages she claims she received from alleged victims on Instagram. According to her, an anonymous woman detailed an incident that took place during CIAA in Charlotte in 2016. 19 victims have come out with drug/sexual abuse stories about T.I. And tiny (so far) in less than 24 hours. — Maya Angelique? (@moneyymaya) January 28, 2021 Do not let this get swept under the rug. — Maya Angelique? (@moneyymaya) January 28, 2021 TW!!! Rape, drugging, abuse, etc//////T.I. And Tiny’s ex friend (instagram: theglamuniversity)came out with her own story of abuse from them yesterday. Since then, 19 others have also come forward. Here are some of them. Some of the victims being as young as 15 years old. pic.twitter.com/pR0rUN7WSW — Maya Angelique? (@moneyymaya) January 28, 2021 TW!!!! Gruesome details of drug abuse and sexual assault////Literally ALL of the stories are similar. They all add up. Orgies and threesomes are regular occurrences with them, so I will not be surprised at all when even more people come forward. They need to be in PRISON. pic.twitter.com/oNSJwWIoG1 — Maya Angelique? (@moneyymaya) January 28, 2021 She claimed she was invited to T.I. and Tiny’s hotel suite at the Ritz-Carlton where her phone was taken from her. According to her molly and cocaine were shared and only the girls who removed their pants were told to stay. The accuser claimed she witnessed the rapper tell his security to come “pick this bitch up off the bed” while referring to a girl she said couldn’t walk. The accuser said the girl in that hotel suit was ‘almost unconscious’ and her pulse was ‘barely there. She described T.I. as an “absolute monster who uses money and power to manipulate people and Tiny is his secret weapon.” The numbers keep rising smh. They are knowingly giving women incurable STDs. pic.twitter.com/Ugez4xGdNB — Maya Angelique? (@moneyymaya) January 29, 2021 I’m gonna mute this conversation for obvious reasons. I’m sorry if this conversation has triggered anyone. This is NOT ok and claiming that their victims are “clout chasing” is beyond vile, not to mention they are almost all anonymous. Stop idolizing these celebrities. — Maya Angelique? (@moneyymaya) January 28, 2021