 Ric Hassani Nigerian singer and songwriter, Ric Hassani has taken to social media to pour his heart out as he recounts his harrowing ordeal of how he was robbed by some men who disguised themselves as soldiers in broad daylight in Lagos. Ric Hassani revealed that the men tried to take his car away after they made away with his phones, including that of his manager at the Freedom Way Axis of Lekki on Friday, February 12. He lamented over how the rise of insecurity in the country and urged all to come together and make Nigeria a better place. He tweeted; “I didn’t want to have to say this, but I got robbed yesterday. 1pm, Freedom way, broad day light, by men posing as soldiers. Entered my car, rough handled my manager, collected our phones, almost snatched my car. I really didn’t want to have to say this.’ I didn’t want to have to say this, but I got robbed yesterday. 1pm, Freedom way, broad day light, by men posing as soldiers. Entered my car, rough handled my manager, collected our phones, almost snatched my car. I really didn’t want to have to say this. — Ric Hassani (@RicHassani) February 13, 2021 I really didn’t want to have to say anything. I handled yesterday like nothing happened. I like to see these things as beneath me to be honest, Thieves are not meant to move me. I would buy another phone and move but you, you still would keep having to steal to survive. Terrible. I really didn’t want to have to say anything. I handled yesterday like nothing happened. I like to see these things as beneath me to be honest, Thieves are not meant to move me. I would buy another phone and move but you, you still would keep having to steal to survive. Terrible. — Ric Hassani (@RicHassani) February 13, 2021 Nigeria is really a ‘wan kain’ place to be honest. I honestly feel fixing Nigeria will take an insane amount of work that is truly beyond any of us BUT, we should all play our part to really really helping this country, coz it really needs SERIOUS help. God be with us. Nigeria is really a ‘wan kain’ place to be honest. I honestly feel fixing Nigeria will take an insane amount of work that is truly beyond any of us BUT, we should all play our part to really really helping this country, coz it really needs SERIOUS help. God be with us. — Ric Hassani (@RicHassani) February 13, 2021