The great season of love is around the corner. Vendors are all set to deliver gift items on behalf of their “boo’dup” customers, lovers are already drowning themselves in wishful thoughts of receiving the most romantic treats, and some might even be expecting the grandest love gesture of all – a proposal. Are any of these dreams or wishes to come true? That remains uncertain. But, what has always been a constant for years is that Infinix always has a plan to spice up Valentine’s. Thankfully, that hasn’t changed this year.  As Valentine’s Day approaches, Infinix is helping Nigerians to touch the heartstrings of their lovers and connect with them very deeply. Time and again, Love experts have proven that compliments and words of affirmation from a lover could have a great impact on their partner. Apart from making lovers feel really good and getting them all pink-faced, it encourages them to reciprocate warm affection. More interestingly, when this is done publicly, the effects are unimaginable. From boosted self-esteem, to stronger bonds, a sense of ignited desire and a reaffirmation of romance. Based off these reasons, Infinix has asked couples toshare their love stories and tell us hot things about their love. How to share; 1. Log on to your social media page on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram. 2. Share a post about the true love story between you and your partner, via pictures, text or video. 3. Tag @Infinixnigeria 4. Use the hashtag #AnInfinixLoveStory. Two couples with declarations that are found to be the most romantic and inspiring will be receiving an all-expense paid Valentine’s package worth ?350,000 each. 20 other couples will also receive gift vouchers worth ?50,000 to purchase any item of their choice at aanyauthorized retail outlet nationwide. Double benefits when you buy HOT 10 Play’s 4+64GB variant for your tech savvy partner on Valentine’s Day If your partner is a gadget freak and you’ve been wondering what to get them on this year’s Valentine’s, you can get yourself a great deal with the Infinix HOT 10 play. Infinix launched the 2+32GB variant of the Infinix Hot 10 play on the 15th of January 2021. But, they decided to save the larger version of the device for the “festival of love”. Starting from the 28th of January till the 15th of February, you can walk into any Infinix authorized store, get the 4+64GB version of the HOT 10 play, and stand a chance to win an all-expense paid Valentine’s package worth ?350,000. Two lucky customers will get to walk away with this prize while others would also walk away with shopping vouchers worth ?50,000 or branded gift items from Infinix. To stand a chance to be one of the winners, follow the guidelines below; 1. Buy any of the Infinix Note8/Note 8i, Hot10/ Hot10Play, or Zero 8. 2. Collect a love raffle card upon in-store purchase. 3. Write what you’d like to gift your partner on the card. 4. Fill in the required details on the card correctly. Love is already in the air, but it’s about to get even more intense as Infinix’s Love campaign kicks off. As always, Infinix is out again to make sure that its customers are creating wonderful memories in this season of love. See term and Conditions Here For more information on ongoing Infinix campaigns, visit Infinix on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram at @Infinixnigeria. You can also join their community of young and vibrant fans on XClub via the app on your Infinix device or click on this link to download the app if you’re a non Infinix user.