 Manchester United enter this derby desperate to end a semi-final jinx that saw them knocked out in all three semi-final appearances last season, including the EFL Cup at the hands of fierce-rivals Manchester City. However City have a different motive, as they hunt a fourth successive EFL Cup – and eighth in total – in order to equal Liverpool’s record EFL trophy haul. The ‘Red Devils’ have the Premier League’s (PL) best ten-game form behind them (W8, D2), and can boast three wins ‘to nil’ in the EFL Cup this term, putting them in good stead to increase their all-time lead over City in this 184th derby (W76, D53, L54), and add further to their record across the eight domestic January cup clashes (W5, L3) that have occurred since the first-ever H2H back in 1881. With United conceding before HT just once across their last seven PL home games – which includes a 0-0 in the last derby – expect a potential tight clash. However, they face a City side starting to find their groove, and which has scored the opener before the 30th minute in all five matches since that goalless derby clash (W4, D1) – they did exactly that in the EFL semi-final match at Old Trafford last season too. Although weakened due to Covid-19 cases, City travel here unbeaten in six competitive away games (W4, D2), and haven’t lost an EFL Cup away fixture since October 2016 – albeit that was a 1-0 defeat against United. The first goal will likely be crucial here again, especially as the team that’s scored first hasn’t lost any of CIty’s last 22 domestic away games – a run that began with their 3-1 EFL Cup victory here back in January 2019. Odds Manchester United are put on 3.25 odds to win while City are on 2.00 with a draw priced at 3.35. Betting Tip Both clubs are coming into a great run of form and this is an interesting clash in prospect. Bookies believe it is a game either side is capable of winning and there are odds of 1.16 to that effect. Also, we expect both teams to score and Betpay offers odds of 1.45 for that. Prediction Any team to win Post Views: 
				37