 In line with our partnership with Betpay, here is a possible guide for betting tips for the Serie A fixture; Cagliari vs Napoli. On Sunday, there is the Cagliari vs Napoli tie that would be taking place at Sardegna Arena and while it looks like a tricky tie, it is one that is worth staking heavily on to begin the year smiling to the bank. Having suffered two defeats and one draw in their last three games of 2020, Napoli have been pushed down on the Serie A ladder, so they will need one hell of a streak to catch up with the leading duo. With the anticipated return of Victor Osimhen and the desperate need for points by Gattuso’s men, they look better placed for the better result despite playing away from home. On Betpay, a straight victory for Napoli has a decent 1.60 odds while for the option of win or draw for the visitors, 1.13 odds is available. Of a truth, Cagliari are going through a crisis of their own, being winless for six games in a row and getting dangerously close to the relegation zone.  We are surely going to have two super-motivated sides on Sunday afternoon and that makes considering the 5.30 odds for a home win for Cagliari worth giving thought and taking the risk. Cagliari vs Napoli Head-to-head Cagliari have caused a lot of trouble to Napoli last season, beating them 1-0 at Sao Paulo but also losing the home encounter with same result. Three out of the last four head to head meetings ended Under 2.5 goals so to stake for Under 2.5 goals in Sunday tie, a massive 2.20 odds is available on Betpay but for over 2.5 goals, the odds is at 1.65 When it comes to all-time stats, Napoli have a massive 18-6 advantage in terms of victories. Number of 1.65games that ended without a winner is 14. Cagliari vs Napoli Prediction Hosts are having big issues when it comes to keeping their net intact, conceding 27 goals in just 14 games. Napoli also does not strike as a side compact enough to keep clean sheets. In this, staking on at least both teams to score is a smart choice and that is 1.70 odds on Betpay Cagliari 1-2 Napoli