 Rangers’ Coach Salisu Yusuf is happy with the goalless draw against Lobi Stars in the Match-Day 6 of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). Salisu said: “It was a good game. In the game of football you don’t win all the time even when Lobi Stars gave us a very good fight to earn a draw. There were some lapses from us on the field of play and we deviated from our style of play, became jittery and could not find their rhythm which made it difficult for us to score. However, we focus for the next game.” Salisu made three changes to his match day 5 squad that were forced to a 1-1 draw by MFM in Lagos with Shedrack Asiegbu, Osas Okoro and Israel Abia making the cut for a starting place and it was wave after wave of attacks by the ‘Flying Antelopes’ but the visitors were resolute in their defending. As early as the second minute, Christian Nnaji had an opportunity to put the host in front after he was set up by an Osas Okoro’ inviting cross but despite looping the ball over onrushing Moses Ocheje, the ball did not find its way into the yawning net as the visitors’ defenders reacted well to clear the danger. Dauda Madaki had a wonderful game as his pace and dribbling skills was a handful for Lazarus John at the right-back but his crosses left much to be desired as Ocheje was always alert to make easy catches. The visitors’ backline of Alex Aghahowa, Moses Tsehuan, Ebube Duru and Duke Osimaga did a good job of their duties in ensuring supplies did not get to Rangers front men and the few times that they were breached, Ocheje was at hand to foil the danger. Despite early substitutions that saw the duo of Shedrack Asiegbu and Christian Nnaji make way for Kenechukwu Agu and Femi Ajayi at the half hour mark, the visitors failed to bulge to all that was thrown at it. Not even the referee’ marching order given to Ossy Martins with twelve minutes left on the clock could tilt the game in the host’ favor as the further introduction of Ifegwu Ojukwu, Godspower Aniefiok and Chidiebere Nwobodo could not break down the visitor’s defense. Goalkeeper Nana Bonsu of Rangers, who in spite of his mother’ death on the morning of the game in faraway Kumasi, Ghana, was at his best to keep his side in the game on two occasions when Chinonso Okonkwo and Ossy Martins were clear on goal. Post Views: 
				75