 Facebook Africa follows up the successful 2020 launch of “Inspiring #Changemakers: Lessons from Life and Business” in South Africa with the launch of a new book “LeadHERs: Life Lessons From African Women,” as part of its International Women’s Month celebration. “LeadHERs: Life Lessons From African Women” is a collection of beautiful, insightful and inspirational real-life stories from a selection of formidable African women pioneering change in their communities. It compiles stories and life advice from 19 women across the continent breaking boundaries in all walks of life including media, entertainment, politics, education and business, for future generations and young leaders with the aim of encouraging, inspiring and guiding the reader despite the background, age or ambition.  Each chapter of the book centres on a personal experience and life lessons on how these women have navigated their path to success, as well as the challenges they have had to overcome along the way. The women featured in “LeadHERs: Life Lessons From African Women”, include:  “At Facebook, we know that African women are at the helm of shaping the future of our promising continent – they are changemakers, mothers and CEOs. This book is a celebration of just some of the exceptional African women who in their own right are trail-blazers, motivating and inspiring people and advocating for good across Africa, and the world. We’re excited about their individual stories, inspired by challenges they’ve endured and how they’ve risen above these, and importantly how they’ve turned these into important life lessons to help inspire others,” said Nunu Ntshingila Regional Director, Facebook Africa.  “LeadHERs: Life Lessons from African Women” is available for free in digital and physical formats, a number of Facebook’s local training partners including She Leads Africa, Fate Foundation, DigifyAfrica, Siyafunda, Smart Ecosystems for Women and cCHub. These will be distributed across 15 countries, including South Africa, Nigeria, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Liberia, Senegal and Kenya – in schools and to beneficiaries of training(s) offered by Facebook partners. Click here to download the book. Artwork Credit: Massira Keita – Côte d’Ivoire Lulu Kitololo – Kenya Karabo Poppy – South Africa Awele Emili – Nigeria.