 It was another weekend Nigerian players made their marks across different European and Africa competitions. Topping the Nigeria team of the week are Dele Aiyenugba, Sadiq Umar, Simy Nwankwo, Ike Ugbo, Joe Aribo and Funsho Bamgboye. Here is the FCniaja team of the week in a 4-2-4 formation. Dele Aiyenugba – Kwara United Former Super Eagles goalkeeper is already proving his worth at his NPFL club Kwara United after keeping three clean sheets in a row since making his debut. The 37-year-old Aiyenugba was in goal during Kwara United 1-0 win over FC Ifeanyi Ubah at Ilorin Township Stadium on Sunday as the Afonja Warriors moves to fifth in the log table. Shehu Abdullahi – Omonia Nicosia Super Eagles defender was instrumental as Omonia Nicosia beat Enosis Paralimni 1-0 in Cyprus First Division encounter at Tasos Markou Stadium. Shehu featured in the entire duration with Omonia Nicosia one-point adrift league leaders Apollon Limassol. Jamilu Collins – Paderborn Kaduna-born left-back had missed the leap into the squad in the past three games but he returns into Paderborn with a great performance in the 1-0 over Wuerzburger Kicker at Benteler-Arena. William Troost-Ekong – Watford Super Eagles vice-captain stars as Watford beat John Obi Mikel’s Stoke City 2-1 in the Sky Bet Championship at Bet365 Stadium. Troost-Ekong featured in the entire duration as the Hornet move to third in the log table. Jide Williams – Kwara United The tough defender was instrumental as Kwara United main three matches unbeaten run after their 1-0 win over FC Ifeanyi Ubah. Joe Aribo – Rangers Aribo scored his fifth league goal of the season as Rangers moved 23 points clear at the top of the Scottish Premiership following a 5-0 thrashing of Ross County. Aribo is yet to hit the heights of last season, but he was brilliant on Saturday afternoon, scoring Rangers third at the Ibrox. Wilfred Ndidi – Leicester City Super Eagles midfielder featured for Leicester City who came from a goal down to beat Championship club Brentford 3-1, in the fourth round of the FA Cup on Sunday. Ndidi coming on in the 70th minute for Nampalys Mendy before he inspired Brenda Rodgers to qualify to the next round. Funsho Bamgboye – Fehérvár Former U-17 World Cup winner continued his fine run in the Hungarian NB I league on Saturday evening as he scored twice in the first half to inspire his side to a 5-0 win away at Ujpest. The strike now takes Bamgboye league tally to six goals for the season with the former Golden Eaglet star now just three goals behind leader Janos Han who has scored nine goals this campaign. Ike Ugbo – Cercle Brugge The Nigerian descent striker-fired his 11th goal in 21 appearances for Cercle Brugge to boost their hopes of survival with a 2-1 win at KV Kortrijk. The other Brugge side in the Belgian top-flight will be counting on more goals from the Chelsea loanee to stay up in the top league this season. Patrick Eze – Kukesi The 28-year-old was match-winner for Albanian club Kukesi when they edged past Bylis 2-1 in the league. He has now scored eight goals in 15 games as Kukesi are now fourth on the league table with 23 points in 16 games. Sadiq Umar – UD Almeria He is another Nigerian goals machine in Europe this season after he scored for promotion-chasing UD Almeria in a 2-2 home draw with Sabadell. Former Nigerian U23 striker has now netted 18 goals if you also take into account his six goals for FK Partizan of Serbia in the first half of the season. Post Views: 
				53