 Jose Mourinho’s Tottenham welcome Marcelo Bielsa’s Leeds on January 2 and our partners Betpay is bringing you the preview and betting tips Tottenham Hotspur start 2021 hoping to snap a four-match winless Premier League (PL) run (D2, L2), but they’ll be fresher than expected after their game against Fulham (Dec 30) was postponed. Conceding a late equaliser against Wolverhampton Wanderers in their last fixture highlighted an ongoing concern though – eight (72.73%) of the 11 second-half league goals they’ve conceded this term arrived after the 75th minute. Whilst inconsistent at home (W3, D2, L2), no team has conceded fewer than the one first-half goal they’ve let in as PL hosts this season. Despite that, goals could still flow here as nine of the last 11 competitive H2Hs anywhere produced over 2.5 goals, whilst ‘Spurs’ scored exactly twice in each of the last four home meetings (W3, D1). Leeds United’s rollercoaster PL season (W7, D2, L7) continued with a 5-0 thrashing of West Bromwich Albion (Dec 29) after they claimed their first four-goal HT lead in the PL since 2001. Such attacking intent saw their December outings (W3, L3) produce an average of 4.67 goals per game, while five matches within that sequence produced at least one strike before the tenth minute. Similarly, their last three away league games produced over 3.5 goals, and subsequently their average of 4.25 match goals per PL road trip is the division’s highest ahead of this round. Furthermore, they’ve scored in every PL away game this term (W4, L4), contributing to a league-high (prior to this matchday) 2.5 first-half goals per road trip. Odds Betpay has Tottenham on 1.95 odds to win, while handing a Leeds win 3.70 odds and a draw at 4.35. Betting Tip Leeds are a very entertaining side but come up against a very resilient Tottenham side and it is expected to be attack versus defence. Our tipsters believe this could be a straight up draw or a slim Spurs win and Betpay has odds of 1.25 for that probability. Prediction Tottenham 1-0 Leeds