Micro blogging site and tech giant Twitter, has announced that the company has chosen Ghana as it’s regional hub for Africa. This comes after the company took to their blog site to revealed their intentions of building a team in Ghana that will serve as the African headquarters for the company. Read details below, Twitter’s mission is to serve the public conversation, and it’s essential, for the world and for Twitter, to increase the number of people who feel comfortable participating in it. To do this, we need to make it easier for every one to join in and provide more relevant experiences for people across the world. Today, in line with our growth strategy, we’re excited to announce that we are now actively building a team in Ghana. To truly serve the public conversation, we must be more immersed in the rich and vibrant communities that drive the conversations taking place every day across the African continent. We are looking for specialists to join several teams including product, design, engineering, marketing and communications. Full details on current job openings can be found on the Twitter Careers site. Aligned with our existing WFH policies, we look forward to welcoming and onboarding our new team members remotely so that we can make an immediate impact while we explore the opportunity to open an office in Ghana in the future. Now the founder of Twitter Jack Dorsey, the president of the Republic of Ghana, H.E Nana Addo Dankwah Akufo Addo and other government officials has reacted to the news after the company made the announcement. Jack Dorsey ?? Twitter is now present on the continent. Thank you Ghana and @NAkufoAddo. #TwitterGhana https://t.co/tt7KR3kvDg — jack (@jack) April 12, 2021 President Nana Akufo-Addo The choice of Ghana as HQ for Twitter’s Africa operations is EXCELLENT news. Gov’t and Ghanaians welcome very much this announcement and the confidence reposed in our country. 1/3 #TwitterInGhana #TwitterGhana https://t.co/HdCqFgXK0x — Nana Akufo-Addo (@NAkufoAddo) April 12, 2021