 Napoli Vs Parma Courtesy of our partners Betpay, here some available options our esteemed readers can try out in your quest for more cash returns this weekend. After the disappointment of losing 3-1 to Verona in their last Serie A game, Napoli are expected to come all out on Sunday when they host Parma at the Diego Maradona Stadium A fortnight ago, the Partinopei produced the best performance of the season in a 6-0 thumping of Fiorentina. However, Napoli’s inconsistency saw them slumping to a pair of straight defeats, conceding as many as five goals in the process. While the Super Cup loss to Juventus can be justified (2-0), last weekend’s 3-1 defeat to the likes of Hellas Verona is inexcusable. Gennaro Gattuso’s men have thus received yet another significant blow to their ambitions. They dropped down to 6th place in the Serie A standings.  On the bright side, Partinopei should have a great opportunity to bounce back right away on Sunday when they play host to out-of-form Parma at Stadio Diego Armando Maradona. On Betpay, a straight win for Napoli which looks almost certain to be the outcome is at 1.35 odds while for Parma to do the unthinkable in Naples; picking a straight win is at 8.45 odds. A win at half time for Victor Osimhen and his teammates is at 1.75 odds Napoli vs Parma Head-to-head In past meetings, Napoli lead the head to head tie by three wins coming into the 34th match against Crociati. However, teams have snatched two wins apiece in the last four H2H encounters. Napoli took a comfortable 0-2 victory when the two sides met each other in the reverse fixture in September last year at Stadio Ennio Tardini. Napoli vs Parma Prediction Parma are one of the whipping boys this season in Serie A. They are winless in the last 11 games in all competitions (10 in the league). They took just one point in the last seven league affairs and scored no more than two goals in the last eight games in Serie A. This will be the clash between the second-best defence of the league (Napoli conceded just 19 goals in 18 games so far) and by far the worst attacking line of the division (Parma scored 14 goals in 19 matches). Since the visitors failed to find the back of the net more than twice in the league eight league outings, we just can’t go past the home team to have a clean sheet and that gets 2.15 odds on Betpay Higher odds of 2.90 is for the taking; staking Napoli to win both halves. Final score Napoli 3-0 Parma Post Views: 
				74