Week after week, Infinix continues to bring the heat to AM’s Friday night party and last week was totally outside the bounds of what we’d seen or known on the show. It was more than electrifying. As always, Do2dtun – the self-acclaimed Energy Gad exuded so much energy and I reckon it was high enough to escape through the screens of every home viewer and get them hyped up to party like never before.  As much as Do2dtun’s energy level was towering, it wasn’t the only thing that stood out on Friday night. Naija’s beautiful and talented disk jockey – DJ Cuppy was also right there in the building. Cuppy served a fine mix of top hits from a broad collection of Nigerian hip-hop and afro-pop music that threw everyone into a frenzy. But, a major highlight of the night party was the dance-off between Infinix’s superstar dancers.  Two twinkle-toed dancers from Infinix’s ongoing online dance challenge were selected for a dance-off on the live stage. Both dancers; Henrywise and Foggs, battled it out for half an hour, showing the viewers at home how to really get the groove going on the dance floor. It was utterly pleasing to watch both dancers challenge themselves with sleek moves for the entire period of the duel. After the thirty minutes duel, Henrywise emerged the winner by a unanimous vote. Just like other winners from Infinix’s Dance Challenge and Star of the Week Challenge, Henrywise walked away with a wild grin on his face and a ?200,000 empowerment fund going straight into his pocket. It’s interesting that this return season of AM’s Turn Up Friday is running through the festive season. With an event like this, people from all over the country can get to share in one massive party experience without leaving the comfort of their homes this festive season. What’s more thrilling is, alongside the wonderful party experience, Infinix is also giving people the opportunity to win amazing gift items and cash prizes on the show through its Dance Challenge, Star of the Week Challenge and weekly trivia. Infinix has always been concerned about promoting young entertainers and empowering the youths and this fact has become more pronounced since the beginning of this second season of AM’s Turn Up Friday. For more information on ongoing Infinix campaigns, visit Infinix on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram at @Infinixnigeria. You can also join their community of young and vibrant fans on XClub via the app on your Infinix device or click on this link to download the app if you’re a non Infinix user.