Have you ever considered the long-term impact of working long hours on your mental health? Agitation, tiredness, and fatigue are just the visible signs of trauma. In our bodies, everything is connected; one move has an impact on the whole system. When you don’t have enough sleep, you’re less creative, making more errors, and your job output suffers. To help you stop working long hours, let’s first look at the disrupting effect it leaves in our lives, business, work, and overall well-being. These are the five points that are worth your attention:  Food, rest, sleep, and exercise are all necessary for the body to run. You don’t have time to refuel your body with the fundamentals it needs for optimum efficiency when you work long hours. Apart from the risk of stroke, there are a slew of other health risks if you don’t take the opportunity to relax and refuel your body. Sleep deprivation, diabetes, heart disease, and obesity are just a few of them. But it isn’t just the long working hours that are to blame. The disturbance of our circadian cycle, sleep, injury rates, mental wellbeing, and the risk of developing a heart attack are all said to be due to erratic work hours and shift work.  Every day, the mind is putting in long hours. It even wants to take a break. Longer work hours put more strain on your mind and leave little time for it to relax. It should come as no surprise that socializing is important for maintaining mental health. Relationships suffer, however, as a result of long working hours. Being overworked deprives you of quality time with your family and friends. As a result, efficiency suffers due to a reduction in concentration. You can do absolutely nothing no matter how much time you spend at your desk. Apart from the impact of long working hours on your productivity, your children will continue to underperform academically and behaviorally if you are unable to devote time to them.  It is a common misconception that working extra hours can result in further work being completed. It has been shown that working more hours would not help you get much done. Long working hours could lead to poor performance as a result of when the mental health is affected or it has drastically affect your physical health. Income, sales, and customer loyalty will all suffer as a result of this. Doing more than 10 hours a day is also not cost-effective. People’s attitudes toward long work hours and time demands are also important.  Working long hours on a regular basis leads to a weak work-life balance, resulting in lower job satisfaction and success, as well as lower life and relationship satisfaction. Long working hours have been shown in many studies to reduce happiness, morale, and life satisfaction. More time spent at work means less time spent with yourself, your colleagues, and your social circle, all of which are important sources of emotional support.Working long hours is often bad for families and social relationships, and it can lead to family dispute.  A shorter and more flexible workweek could make the transition from work to retirement much easier and more gradual. Over the course of a decade or more, people’s working hours could be steadily reduced. Shifting from long hours of paid work to no hours of paid work can be stressful, resulting in sickness and early death.