 Bologna vs AC Milan: Betting Tips & Predictions Another matchday is upon us in the Serie A and that invariably means another veritable means of making some money on Betpay is available for those ready to stake wisely Despite outrightly losing two of the last four league outings, AC Milan still enjoys a two-point cushion ahead of bitter city rivals Inter at the top of the Serie A standings. The Rossoneri suffered a humiliating 0-3 home defeat to Atalanta last weekend, a failure that was followed by the mid-week’s Coppa Italia exit after a 2-1 defeat to Inter. This development makes this weekend’s tie away to Bologna quite important as AC Milan cannot afford to drop further points when they travel to Stadio Renato Dall’Ara for the first Serie A game on Saturday. Though AC Milan are firm favourites for this game, Betpay is offering massive 2.00 odds for the visitors to emerge victorious in this tie. Bologna have been largely inconsistent this season and it is not surprising they currently sit in the bottom half of the league ladder after winning no more than one of the last eleven league outings. The lack of efficiency in the final third has been the main source of problems for I Rossoblu who have notched only one goal in the last three league games.  It would not be advisable to stake on Bologna beating AC Milan this Saturday even though they are commanding a massive 3.95 odds to stun the Rossoneri at home. Bologna vs AC Milan Head-to-head Milan have been the dominant force in this match-up. They won 27, drew 8, and lost 6 of 41 encounters with I Rossoblu. In fact, the Rossoneri picked up nine wins and a draw in the last ten meetings with Bologna. The run includes a 2-0 victory in the reverse fixture played in this season at Stadio San Siro (2-0). Milan scored at least two goals in seven of the last eight head to head matches against and you bank on them to do the same this weekend. A smart choice will be to stake for Under 3.5 goals which is at 1.35 odds or go for No in the option of both teams to score, Betpay offers 1.95 odds for the option of AC Milan keeping a clean sheet Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored the opener in the mentioned cup loss to Inter before getting sent off just before the hour-mark. The Swedish striker will lead the line on Saturday and we can find the value in backing him to score anytime at the odds of 1.72. Prediction Bologna 0-2 AC Milan Post Views: 
				66