 Five new Nigerian players may be handed the first Super Eagles invitation ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Benin Republic and Lesotho next month. Gernot Rohr’s men not only surrendered a 4-0 lead in Benin City but were mostly average in Freetown in the reverse fixture, albeit this was not helped by a pretty poor pitch. Nigeria is a country blessed with football talent and the nation has also got millions of young footballers within and around the world. Let’s looking at the five possible players that could get their first call up into the senior national team ahead of next month Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers to be played in Cameroon next year. Terem Moffi – Lorient  The boy from Calabar has taken France by storm after scoring nine goals for struggling Lorient in Ligue 1. The 21-year-old arriving in France from Kortrijk last year made an instant impression with Les Merlus, scoring on his debut in a 3-1 win at Reims but that was his only goal in his first 10 matches for the club. Moffi has now settled perfectly and has struck seven goals in his last eight appearances, including his first Ligue 1 double in the 2-2 draw at Monaco. The Nigerian forward has already been rumours linking him with a move away from France with interest from Steven Gerrard’s Scottish giants Rangers but the youngster has been tipped for a potential debut call-up for Nigeria’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers next month, which could see him reunite with his childhood friend Alex Iwobi. Taiwo Awoniyi – Union Berlin  The Liverpool loanee has notched five goals and three assists in 18 league appearances for Union Berlin this season. Nigerian coach Genort Rohr set to reward Awoniyi with Super Eagles invitations following his new found form in Germany but a recent thigh injury threatens former Nigerian U23 striker his first call up. Awoniyi has become a forgotten man at Anfield, having gone almost six years without an appearance for the Premier League Champions with several loan spell but the youngster will be hoping to fit for next month encounter. Umar Sadiq – Almeria  Sadiq is having a fine debut campaign with Almeria and he is one goal shy from equalling his best scoring record in a league season when he scored 12 goals for Partizan Belgrade in the 2019-20 Serbian Super Liga. The 24-year-old Nigerian former AS Roma striker was part of the Dream Team VI that won bronze at the 2016 Olympic Games where he contributed four goals in six appearances, and he is yet to be considered for an international assignment in over four years. Sadiq recognised the fact that Nigeria possesses young and talented players but still hold his belief that he will grab his chance if invited for Super Eagles with Napoli star Victor Osimhen struggling with injury. Ovie Ejaria – Reading  Former Liverpool star has switched his international allegiance from England to Nigeria at senior level. The 23-year-old midfielder was a regular fixture at Reading this season, making 32 appearances with three goals and four assists to his name in the Championship. Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr is a big admired of Ejaria who trained with the Golden Eaglets in 2013 before appearing for the England under-20s and U21 in the past. Nigeria have previously succeeded in convincing several former England youth internationals like Sone Aluko, Victor Moses, Shola Ameobi, Alex Iwobi and Ola Aina to swap allegiances. Bright Osayi-Samuel – Fenerbahce  Osayi-Samuel joined Fenerbahce from QPR in January but the born winger is yet to earn a cap for Nigeria. The Benin-City born star gaining attention for his displays in the Championship which has not gone unnoticed to Super Eagles coach Genort Rohr. Osayi-Samuel has quick feet and directness saw him average 2.8 dribbles per game and he registered three goals and three assists before making the move across Europe to Fenerbache. Post Views: 
				197